The Project Gutenberg eBook of Argonaut stories, by Jerome Hart

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Argonaut stories

Editor: Jerome Hart

Release Date: June 25, 2022 [eBook #68408]

Language: English

Produced by: Roger Frank and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
             https://www.pgdp.net (This book was produced from images
             made available by the HathiTrust Digital Library.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ARGONAUT STORIES ***





ARGONAUT STORIES



Argonaut Stories

  J. LONDON, F. NORRIS, S. E. WHITE, J. F. WILSON, W. C. MORROW,
  G. OVERTON, W. O. McGEEHAN, W. H. IRWIN, K. THOMPSON, M. ROBERTS,
  B. ONEILL, E. MUNSON, C. F. EMBREE, C. ALFRED, G. C. TERRY,
  N. KOUNS, NEIL GILLESPIE, B. W. SINCLAIR, C. W. DOYLE,
  C. D. WILLARD, R. D. MILNE, G. BONNER.

Selected from the Argonaut

Jerome Hart, Editor

SAN FRANCISCO: PAYOT, UPHAM & COMPANY

Agents for Pacific Coast 1906




Copyright, 1906

By the Argonaut Publishing Company

THE ARGONAUT PRESS

SAN FRANCISCO




CONTENTS

    JACK LONDON: Moon-Face
    FRANK NORRIS: A Caged Lion
    GWENDOLEN OVERTON: The Race Bond
    WILLIAM C. MORROW: The Rajahs Nemesis
    BUCKEY ONEILL: The Man-Hunters Reward
    GERALDINE BONNER: Conscience Money
    CHARLES DWIGHT WILLARD: The Jack-Pot
    C. W. DOYLE: The Seats of Judgment
    STEWART EDWARD WHITE: A Double Shot
    ROBERT DUNCAN MILNE: Ten Thousand Years in Ice
    W. O. McGEEHAN: Leaves on the River Pasig
    CHARLES F. EMBREE: The Great Euchre Boom
    MARIA ROBERTS: The Sorcery of Asenath
    E. MUNSON: Old Hard Luck
    WILL H. IRWIN: The Dotted Trail
    C. ALFRED: The White Grave
    GIBERT CUNYNGHAM TERRY: The Jewels of Bendita
    NATHAN C. KOUNS: The Man-Dog
    JOHN F. WILSON: The Amateur Revolutionist
    NEIL GILLESPIE: The Blood of a Comrade
    BERTRAND W. SINCLAIR: Under Flying Hoofs
    KATHLEEN THOMPSON: The Colonel and The Lady




MOON FACE

By Jack London


John Claverhouse was a moon-faced man. You know the
kind--cheek-bones wide apart, chin and forehead melting into the
cheeks to complete the perfect round, and the nose, broad and pudgy,
equidistant from the circumference, flattened against the very
centre of the face like a dough-ball upon the ceiling. Perhaps that
is why I hated him, for truly he had become an offense to my eyes,
and I believed the earth to be cumbered with his presence. Perhaps
my mother may have been superstitious of the moon and looked upon it
over the wrong shoulder at the wrong time.

But be that as it may, I hated John Claverhouse. Not that he had
done me what society would consider a wrong or an ill turn. Far from
it, in any such sense. The evil was of a deeper, subtler sort; so
elusive, so intangible, as to defy clear, definite analysis in
words. We all experience such things at some period in our lives.
For the first time we see a certain individual, one whom the very
instant before we did not dream existed; and yet, at the first
moment of meeting, we say: I do not like that man. Why do we not
like him? And we do not know why; we only know that we do not. We
have taken a dislike, that is all. And so I with John Claverhouse.

What right had such a man to be happy? Yet he was an optimist. He
was always gleeful and laughing. All things were always all right,
curse him! Ah! how it grated on my soul that he should be so happy!
Other men could laugh, and it did not bother me. I even used to
laugh myself--before I met John Claverhouse.

But his laugh! It irritated me, maddened me, as nothing else under
the sun could irritate or madden me. It haunted me, gripped hold of
me, and would not let me go. It was a huge, Gargantuan laugh. Waking
or sleeping it was always with me, whirring and jarring across my
heart-strings and the very fibres of my being like an enormous rasp.
At break of day it came whooping across the fields to spoil my
pleasant morning reverie. Under the aching noon-day glare, when the
green things drooped and the birds withdrew to the depths of the
forest, and all nature drowsed, his great Ha! ha! and Ho! ho!
rose up to the sky and challenged the sun. And at black midnight,
from the lonely cross-roads where he turned from town into his own
place, came his plaguy cachinnations to rouse me from my sleep and
make me toss about and clench my nails into my palms.

I went forth privily in the night-time and turned his cattle into
his fields, and in the morning heard his whooping laugh as he drove
them out again. It is nothing, he said; the poor, dumb beasties
are not to be blamed for straying into fatter pastures.

He had a dog he called Mars, a big, splendid brute, part deerhound
and part bloodhound, and resembling both. Mars was a great delight
to him, and they were always together. But I bided my time, and one
day, when opportunity was ripe, lured the animal away and settled
for him with arsenic and beefsteak. It made positively no impression
on John Claverhouse. His laugh was as hearty and frequent as ever,
and his face as much like the full moon as it always had been.

Then I set fire to his hay-stacks and his barn. But the next
morning, being Sunday, he went forth blithe and cheerful.

Where are you going? I asked him, as he went by the cross-roads.

Trout, he said, and his face beamed like a full moon. I just dote
on trout, you know.

Was there ever such an impossible man! His whole harvest had gone up
in his hay-stacks and barn. It was uninsured, I knew. And yet, in
the face of famine and the rigorous winter, he went out gayly in
quest of a mess of trout, forsooth, because he doted on them! Had
gloom but rested, no matter how lightly, on his brow, or had his
bovine countenance grown long and serious and less like the moon, or
had he removed that smile but once from off his face, I am sure I
could have forgiven him for existing. But, no, he grew only more
cheerful under misfortune.

I insulted him. He looked at me in slow and smiling surprise.

I fight you? Why? he asked, slowly. And then he laughed. You are
so funny! Ho! ho! Youll be the death of me! He! he! he! Oh! Ho! ho!
ho!

What would you? It was past endurance. By the blood of Judas, how I
hated him! Then there was that name--Claverhouse! What a name!
Wasnt it absurd? Claverhouse! Merciful heaven, _why_ Claverhouse?
Again and again I asked myself that question. I should not have
minded Smith, or Brown, or Jones--but _Claverhouse_! I leave it to
you. Repeat it to yourself--Claverhouse. Just listen to the
ridiculous sound of it--Claverhouse! Should a man live with such a
name? I ask of you. No, you say. And No said I.

But I bethought me of his mortgage. What of his crops and barn
destroyed, I knew he would be unable to meet it. So I got a shrewd,
close-mouthed, tight-fisted money-lender to get the mortgage
transferred to him. I did not appear, but through this agent I
forced the foreclosure, and but few days (no more, believe me, than
the law allowed) were given John Claverhouse to remove his goods and
chattels from the premises. Then I strolled down to see how he took
it, for he had lived there upward of twenty years. But he met me
with his saucer-eyes twinkling, and the light glowing and spreading
in his face till it was as a full-risen moon.

Ha! ha! ha! he laughed. The funniest tike, that youngster of
mine! Did you ever hear the like? Let me tell you. He was down
playing by the edge of the river when a piece of the bank caved in
and splashed him. Oh, papa! he cried; a great big puddle flewed
up and hit me.

He stopped and waited for me to join him in his infernal glee.

I dont see any laugh in it, I said, shortly, and I know my face
went sour.

He regarded me with wonderment, and then came the damnable light,
glowing and spreading, as I have described it, till his face shone
soft and warm, like the summer moon, and then the laugh--Ha! ha!
Thats funny! You dont see it, eh? He! he! Ho! ho! ho! He doesnt
see it! Why, look here. You know, a puddle----

But I turned on my heel and left him. That was the last. I could
stand it no longer. The thing must end right there, I thought, curse
him! The earth should be quit of him. And as I went over the hill, I
could hear his monstrous laugh reverberating against the sky.

Now, I pride myself on doing things neatly, and when I resolved to
kill John Claverhouse I had it in mind to do so in such a fashion
that I should not look back upon it and feel ashamed. I hate
bungling, and I hate brutality. To me there is something repugnant
in merely striking a man with ones naked fist--faugh! it is
sickening! So, to shoot, or stab, or club John Claverhouse (O that
name!) did not appeal to me. And not only was I impelled to do it
neatly and artistically, but also in such manner that not the
slightest possible suspicion could be directed against me.

To this end I bent my intellect, and, after a week of profound and
strenuous incubation, I hatched the scheme. Then I set to work. I
bought a water-spaniel bitch, five months old, and devoted my whole
attention to her training. Had any one spied upon me, they would
have remarked that this training consisted entirely of one
thing--_retrieving_. I taught the dog, which I called Bellona, to
fetch sticks I threw into the water, and not only to fetch, but to
fetch at once, without mouthing or playing with them. The point was
that she was to stop for nothing, but to deliver the stick in all
haste. I made a practice of running away and leaving her to chase
me, with the stick in her mouth, till she caught me. She was a
bright animal, and took to the game with such eagerness that I was
soon content.

After that, at the first casual opportunity, I presented Bellona to
John Claverhouse. I knew what I was about, for I was aware of a
little weakness of his, and of a little private and civic sinning of
which he was regularly and inveterately guilty.

No, he said, when I placed the end of the rope to which she was
tied in his hand. No, you dont mean it. And his mouth opened
wide, and he grinned all over his damnable moon-face.

I--I kind of thought, somehow, you didnt like me, he explained.
Wasnt it funny for me to make such a mistake? And at the thought
he held his sides with laughter.

What is her name? he managed to ask between paroxysms.

Bellona, I said.

He! he! he tittered. What a funny name!

I gritted my teeth, for his mirth put them on edge, and snapped out
between them: She was the wife of Mars, you know.

Then the light of the full moon began to suffuse his face, until he
exploded with: Well, I guess shes a widow now! Oh! Ho! ho! E! he!
he! Ho! he whooped after me, and I turned and fled swiftly away
over the hill.

The week passed by, and on Saturday evening I said to him: You go
away Monday, dont you?

He nodded his head and grinned.

Then you wont have another chance to get a mess of those trout you
just dote on.

But he did not notice the sneer. Oh, I dont know, he chuckled.
Im going up to-morrow to try pretty hard.

Thus was assurance made doubly sure, and I went back to my house
literally hugging myself with rapture.

Early next morning I saw him go by with a dip-net and gunnysack, and
Bellona trotting at his heels. I knew where he was bound, and cut
out by the back pasture and climbed through the underbrush to the
top of the mountain. Keeping carefully out of sight, I followed the
crest along for a couple of miles to a natural amphitheatre in the
hills, where the little river ramped down out of a gorge, and
stopped for breath in a large and placid rock-bound pool. That was
the spot! I sat down on the croup of the mountain, where I could see
all that occurred, and lighted my pipe.

Ere many minutes had passed, John Claverhouse came plodding up the
bed of the stream. Bellona was ambling about him, and they were in
high feather, her short, snappy barks mingling with his deeper
chest-notes. Arrived at the pool, he threw down the dip-net and
sack, and drew from his hip-pocket what looked like a large, fat
candle. But I knew it to be a stick of giant; for such was his
method of catching trout. He dynamited them. He attached the fuse by
wrapping the giant tightly in a piece of cotton. Then he ignited
the fuse and tossed the explosive into the pool.

Like a flash, Bellona was into the pool after it. I could have
shrieked aloud for very joy. Claverhouse yelled at her, but without
avail. He pelted her with clods and rocks, but she swam steadily on
till she got the stick of giant in her mouth, when she whirled
about and headed for shore. Then, for the first time, he realized
his danger, and started to run. As foreseen and planned by me, she
made the bank and took out after him. Oh, I tell you, it was great!
As I have said, the pool lay in a sort of amphitheatre. Above and
below, the stream could be crossed on stepping-stones. And around
and around, up and down and across the stones, raced Claverhouse and
Bellona. I could never have believed that such an ungainly man could
run so fast. But run he did, Bellona hot-footed after him, and
gaining. And then, just as she caught up, he in full stride, and she
leaping with nose at his knee, there was a sudden flash, a burst of
smoke, and terrific detonation, and where man and dog had been the
instant before there was naught to be seen but a big hole in the
ground.

Death from accident while engaged in illegal fishing. That was the
verdict of the coroners jury; and that is why I pride myself on the
neat and artistic way in which I finished off John Claverhouse.
There was no bungling, no brutality; nothing to be ashamed of in the
whole transaction, as I am sure you will agree. No more does his
infernal laugh go echoing among the hills, and no more does his fat
moon-face rise up to vex me. My days are peaceful now, and my
nights sleep deep.




A CAGED LION

By Frank Norris


In front of the entrance a spieler stood on a starch-box and beat
upon a piece of tin with a stick, and we weakly succumbed to his
frenzied appeals and went inside. We did this, I am sure, partly to
please the spieler, who would have been dreadfully disappointed if
we had not done so, but partly, too, to please Toppan, who was
always interested in the great beasts and liked to watch them.

It is possible that you may remember Toppan as the man who married
Victoria Boyden, and, in so doing, thrust his greatness from him and
became a bank-clerk instead of an explorer. After he married, he
came to be quite ashamed of what he had done in Thibet and Africa
and other unknown corners of the earth, and, after a while, very
seldom spoke of that part of his life at all; or, when he did, it
was only to allude to it as a passing boyish fancy, altogether
foolish and silly, like calf-love and early attempts at poetry.

I used to think I was going to set the world on fire at one time,
he said once; I suppose every young fellow has some such ideas. I
only made an ass of myself, and Im glad Im well out of it.
Victoria saved me from that.

But this was long afterward. He died hard, and sometimes he would
have moments of strength in his weakness, just as before he had
given up his career during a moment of weakness in his strength.
During the first years after he had given up his career, he thought
he was content with the way things had come to be; but it was not
so, and now and then the old feeling, the love of the old life, the
old ambition, would be stirred into activity again by some sight, or
sound, or episode in the conventional life around him. A chance
paragraph in a newspaper, a sight of the Arizona deserts of sage and
cactus, a momentary panic on a ferry-boat, sometimes even fine music
or a great poem would wake the better part of him to the desire of
doing great things. At such times the longing grew big and troublous
within him to cut loose from it all, and get back to those places of
the earth where there were neither months nor years, and where the
days of the week had no names; where he could feel unknown winds
blowing against his face and unnamed mountains rising beneath his
feet; where he could see great sandy, stony stretches of desert with
hot, blue shadows, and plains of salt, and thickets of jungle-grass,
broken only by the lairs of beasts and the paths the steinbok make
when they go down to water.

The most trifling thing would recall all this to him just as a
couple of notes have recalled to you whole arias and overtures. But
with Toppan it was as though one had recalled the arias and the
overtures, and then was not allowed to sing them.

We went into the arena and sat down. The ring in the middle was
fenced in by a great, circular iron cage. The tiers of seats rose
around this, a band was playing in a box over the entrance, and the
whole interior was lighted by an electric globe slung over the
middle of the cage. Inside a brown bear--to me less suggestive of a
wild animal than of lap-robes and furriers signs--was dancing
sleepily and allowing himself to be prodded by a person whose
celluloid standing-collar showed white at the neck above the green
of his Tyrolese costume. The bear was mangy, and his steel muzzle
had chafed him, and Toppan said he was corrupted of moth and rust
alike, and the audience applauded but feebly when he and his keeper
withdrew.

After this we had a clown-elephant, dressed in a bib and tucker and
vast baggy breeches--like those of a particularly big French
_Turco_--who had lunch with his keeper, and rang the bell and drank
his wine and wiped his mouth with a handkerchief like a bed-quilt,
and pulled the chair from underneath his companion, seeming to be
amused at it all with a strange sort of suppressed elephantine
mirth.

And then, after they had both made their bow and gone out, in
bounded and tumbled the dogs, barking and grinning all over, jumping
up on their stools and benches, wriggling and pushing one another
about, giggling and excited like so many kindergarten children on a
show day. I am sure they enjoyed their performance as much as the
audience did, for they never had to be told what to do, and seemed
only too eager for their turn to come. The best of it all was that
they were quite unconscious of the audience, and appeared to do
their tricks for the sake of the tricks themselves, and not for the
applause which followed them. And, then, after the usual programme
of wicker cylinders, hoops, and balls was over, they all rushed off
amid a furious scrattling of paws and filliping of tails and heels.

While this was going on, we had been hearing from time to time a
great sound, half-whine, half-rumbling guttural cough, that came
from somewhere behind the exit from the cage. It was repeated at
rapidly decreasing intervals, and grew lower in pitch until it ended
in a short bass grunt. It sounded cruel and menacing, and when at
its full volume the wood of the benches under us thrilled and
vibrated.

There was a little pause in the programme while the arena was
cleared and new and much larger and heavier paraphernalia were set
about, and a gentleman with well-groomed hair and a very shiny hat
entered and announced the worlds greatest lion-tamer. Then he
went away and the tamer came in and stood expectantly by the side of
the entrance. There was another short wait and the band struck a
long minor chord.

And then they came in, one after the other, with long, crouching,
lurching strides, not all good-humoredly, like the dogs or the
elephant, or even the bear, but with low-hanging heads, surly,
watchful, their eyes gleaming with the rage and hate that burned in
their hearts, and that they dared not vent. Their loose, yellow
hides rolled and rippled over the great muscles as they moved, and
the breath coming from their hot, half-open mouths turned to steam
as it struck the air.

A huge, blue-painted see-saw was dragged out to the centre, and the
tamer made a sharp sound of command. Slowly, and with twitching
tails, two of them obeyed, and, clambering upon the balancing-board,
swung up and down, while the music played a see-saw waltz. And all
the while their great eyes flamed with the detestation of the thing,
and their black upper lips curled away from their long fangs in
protest of this hourly renewed humiliation and degradation.

And one of the others, while waiting his turn to be whipped and
bullied, sat up on his haunches and faced us and looked far away
beyond us over the heads of the audience--over the continent and
ocean, as it were--as though he saw something in that quarter that
made him forget his present surroundings.

You grand old brute, muttered Toppan; and then he said: Do you
know what you would see if you were to look into his eyes now? You
would see Africa, and unnamed mountains, and great stony stretches
of desert, with hot blue shadows, and plains of salt, and lairs in
the jungle-grass, and lurking places near the paths the steinbok
make when they go down to water. But now hes hampered and
caged--_is_ there anything worse than a caged lion?--and kept from
the life he loves and was made for--just here the tamer spoke
sharply to him, and his eyes and crest drooped--and ruled over,
concluded Toppan, by some one who is not so great as he, who has
spoiled what was best in him, and has turned his powers to trivial,
resultless uses--some one weaker than he, yet stronger. Ah, well,
old brute, it was yours once, we will remember that.

They wheeled out a clumsy velocipede built expressly for him, and,
while the lash whistled and snapped about him, the conquered king
heaved himself upon it and went around and around the ring, while
the band played a quickstep. The audience broke into applause, and
the tamer smirked and bobbed his well-oiled head. I thought of
Samson performing for the Philistines and Thusnelda at the triumph
of Germanicus. The great beasts, grand though conquered, seemed to
be the only dignified ones in the whole business. I hated the
audience who saw their shame from behind iron bars; I hated myself
for being one of them; and I hated the smug, sniggering tamer.

This latter had been drawing out various stools and ladders, and now
arranged the lions upon them so they should form a pyramid, with
himself on top.

Then he swung himself up among them, with his heels upon their
necks, and, taking hold of the jaws of one, wrenched them apart with
a great show of strength, turning his head to the audience so that
all should see.

And just then the electric light above him cackled harshly,
guttered, dropped down to a pencil of dull red, then went out, and
the place was absolutely dark.

The band stopped abruptly, with a discord, and there was an instant
of silence. Then we heard the stools and ladders clattering as the
lions leaped down; and straightway four pair of lambent green spots
burned out of the darkness and traveled swiftly about here and
there, crossing and recrossing one another like the lights of
steamers in a storm. Heretofore, the lions had been sluggish and
inert; now they were aroused and alert in an instant, and we could
hear the swift _pad-pad_ of their heavy feet as they swung around
the arena, and the sound of their great bodies rubbing against the
bars of the cage as one and the other passed nearer to us.

I dont think the audience at all appreciated the situation at
first, for no one moved or seemed excited, and one shrill voice
suggested that the band should play When the Electric Lights Go
Out.

Keep perfectly quiet, please! called the tamer out of the
darkness, and a certain peculiar ring in his voice was the first
intimation of a possible danger.

But Toppan knew; and as we heard the tamer fumbling for the catch of
the gate, which he somehow could not loose in the darkness, he said,
with a rising voice: He wants to get that gate open pretty quick.

But for their restless movements the lions were quiet; they uttered
no sound, which was a bad sign. Blinking and dazed by the garish
blue-whiteness of a few moments before, they could see perfectly now
where the tamer was blind.

Listen, said Toppan. Near to us, and on the inside of the cage, we
could hear a sound as of some slender body being whisked back and
forth over the surface of the floor. In an instant I guessed what it
was; one of the lions was crouched there, whipping his sides with
his tail.

When he stops that, hell spring, said Toppan, excitedly.

Bring a light, Jerry--quick! came the tamers voice.

People were clambering to their feet by this time, talking loud, and
we heard a woman cry out.

Please keep as quiet as possible, ladies and gentlemen! cried the
tamer; it wont do to excite----

From the direction of the voice came the sound of a heavy fall and a
crash that shook the iron gratings in their sockets.

Hes got him! shouted Toppan.

And then what a scene! In that thick darkness every one sprang up,
stumbling over the seats and over each other, all shouting and
crying out, suddenly stricken with a panic fear of something they
could not see. Inside the barred death-trap every lion suddenly gave
tongue at once, until the air shook and sang in our ears. We could
hear the great cats hurling themselves against the bars, and could
see their eyes leaving brassy streaks against the darkness as they
leaped. Two more sprang, as the first had done, toward that quarter
of the cage from which came sounds of stamping and struggling, and
then the tamer began to scream.

I think that so long as I shall live I shall not forget the sound of
the tamers screams. He did not scream as a woman would have done,
from the head, but from the chest, which sounded so much worse that
I was sick from it in a second with that sickness that weakens one
at the pit of the stomach and along the muscles at the back of the
legs. He did not pause for a second. Every breath was a scream, and
every scream was alike, and one heard through it all the long snarls
of satisfied hate and revenge, muffled by the mans clothes and the
_rip_, _rip_ of the cruel, blunt claws.

Hearing it all in the dark, as we did, made it all the more
dreadful. I think for a time I must have taken leave of my senses. I
was ready to vomit for the sickness that was upon me, and I beat my
hands raw upon the iron bars or clasped them over my ears against
the sounds of the dreadful thing that was doing behind them. I
remember praying aloud that it might soon be over with, so only
those screams might be stopped.

It seemed as though it had gone on for hours, when some men rushed
in with a lantern and long, sharp irons. A hundred voices cried:
Here he is, over here! and they ran around outside the cage and
threw the light of the lantern on a place where a heap of gray,
gold-laced clothes writhed and twisted beneath three great bulks of
fulvous hide and bristling black mane.

The irons were useless. The three furies dragged their prey out of
their reach and crouched over it again and recommenced. No one dared
to go into the cage, and still the man lived and struggled and
screamed.

I saw Toppans fingers go to his mouth, and through that medley of
dreadful noises there issued a sound that, sick as I was, made me
shrink anew and close my eyes and teeth and shudder as though some
cold slime had been poured through the hollow of my bones where the
marrow should be. It was as the noise of the whistling of a fine
whip-lash, mingled with the whirr of a locust magnified a hundred
times, and ended in an abrupt clacking noise thrice repeated.

At once I remembered where I had heard it before, because, having
once heard the hiss of an aroused and angry serpent, no child of Eve
can ever forget it.

The sound that now came from between Toppans teeth and that filled
the arena from wall to wall, was the sound that I had heard once
before in the Paris Jardin des Plantes at feeding-time--the sound
made by the great constrictors, when their huge bodies are looped
and coiled like a _reata_ for the throw that never misses, that
never relaxes, and that no beast of the field is built strong enough
to withstand. All the filthy wickedness and abominable malice of the
centuries since the Enemy first entered into that shape that crawls
was concentrated in that hoarse, whistling hiss--a hiss that was
cold and piercing, like an icicle-made sound. It was not loud, but
had in it some sort of penetrating quality that cut through the
waves of horrid sounds about us, as the snake-carved prow of a
Viking galley might have cut its way through the tumbling eddies of
a tide-rip.

At the second repetition the lions paused. None better than they
knew what was the meaning of that hiss. They had heard it before in
their native hunting-grounds in the earlier days of summer, when the
first heat lay close over all the jungle like the hollow of the palm
of an angry god. Or if they themselves had not heard it, their sires
before them had, and the fear of the thing bred into their bones
suddenly leaped to life at the sound and gripped them and held them
close.

When for a third time the sound sung and shrilled in their ears,
their heads drew between their shoulders, their great eyes grew
small and glittering, the hackles rose and stiffened on their backs,
their tails drooped, and they backed slowly to the further side of
the cage and cowered there, whining and beaten.

Toppan wiped the sweat from the inside of his hands and went into
the cage with the keepers and gathered up the panting, broken body,
with its twitching fingers and dead, white face and ears, and
carried it out. As they lifted it, the handful of pitiful medals
dropped from the shredded, gray coat and rattled down upon the
floor. In the silence that had now succeeded, it was about the only
sound one heard.

                 *       *       *       *       *

As we sat that evening on the porch of Toppans house, in a
fashionable suburb of the city, he said, for the third time: I had
that trick from a Mpongwee headman, and added: It was while I was
at Victoria Falls, waiting to cross the Kalahari Desert.

Then he continued, his eyes growing keener and his manner changing:
There is some interesting work to be done in that quarter by some
one. You see, the Kalahari runs like this--he drew the lines on the
ground with his cane--coming down in something like this shape from
the Orange River to about the twentieth parallel south. The aneroid
gives its average elevation about six hundred feet. I didnt cross
it at the time, because we had sickness and the porters cut. But I
made a lot of geological observations, and from these I have built
up a theory that the Kalahari is no desert at all, but a big,
well-watered plateau, with higher ground to the east and west. The
tribes, too, thereabout call the place Linoka-Noka and thats the
Bantu for rivers upon rivers. Theyre nasty, though, these Bantu,
and gave us a lot of trouble. They have a way of spitting little
poisoned thorns into you unawares, and your tongue swells up and
turns blue and your teeth fall out and----

His wife Victoria came out on the porch in evening-dress.

Ah, Vic, said Toppan, jumping up, with a very sweet smile, we
were just talking about your paper-german next Tuesday, and _I_
think we might have some very pretty favors made out of white
tissue-paper--roses and butterflies, you know.




THE RACE BOND

By Gwendolen Overton


The whistle of the steamer saluted three times--twice short and once
long--the sun which rose over the deep green mountains of Costa
Rica. The signal was answered in due time. A small tug put off from
the long iron pier. There was a launch at the end of its tow line, a
big, flat scow of a lighter. It came out across the smooth
mother-of-pearl stretch of water, jerking and bobbing over the great
Pacific swells. The tug shot by the steamer, the launch threw loose
the tow line, and as it came alongside the forward cargo hatchway, a
_lanchero_ pitched another rope up to the boatswain.

There followed delay. There must of necessity follow delay when the
crews and captains of launches are West Coast natives--Mexican
stevedores at the very best--and most of the sailors on the steamers
the same. The first-officer, down on the main deck, gave orders,
there was a creaking of hawsers on the strain, the rattle and squeal
of blocks and tackle, and the rumble of moving freight in one of the
forward cargo-spaces. The captain, immaculate in ducks, came out
from his cabin. He went to the rail and looked over at La Libertad,
where the white and red of its long, low houses showed clear in the
daybreak among the glistening palms. Then he looked down. There were
eight or ten _lancheros_ in the lighter helping to confuse the very
simple process of making her fast, or perched upon the gunwale
observing with the vague placidity of their kind.

The captain had no opinion of Central American natives of any sort,
much less of _lancheros_. He considered these ones with rather more
than usual disgust.

Whats the matter with them fellows in that launch, Marsden, he
inquired of the first-officer.

Marsden was peering down into the black hole of the hold. He drew
away and looked up to the rail of the hurricane deck. Played out,
sir, he told him; they were loading the _San Benito_ until she put
out last night at eleven.

The captain had no sympathy for them on that, or any other score.
His eye was without mercy, as he took stock of them again.
Hullo--one of them is white, he said. It was meant, as before, for
the first-officer, but it was entirely audible to the _lancheros_.

The first-officer looked over into the launch, and the man who was
white looked up at him. Then the first-officer turned away. Yes,
sir, he said.

He walked to the hatchway edge. Quartermaster, he called. A voice
from the hold answered him. Send up those boxes of nails first, he
ordered.

There followed a banging in the cargo-space, the boatswains whistle
began its shrill little calls, which would keep up all day, a donkey
engine puffed, and a windlass rattled in the bowels of the ship; the
big hook on the end of its rope swung down the hatchway, and
presently a net-sling full of boxes was hoisted and deposited on the
main deck.

T. S. & Co., over X, one--Garcia, three times--Y in a diamond, two
times--J. S. & Co., over X, four. The first-officer marked the
boxes with his chalk as he called their address and number, the
checky for the port authorities and the freight-clerk for the ship
kept tally and record in their own books; the net drew taut again at
the boatswains whistle, and the first load of cargo swung overside
and was lowered into the launch.

The first-officer went to the side and watched it. It was the white
man who unhooked the sling, who spilled out the boxes, and sent the
sling back empty, all with a promptness that no native _lancheros_
could have hoped, or would have dreamed of, attempting to attain.
These looked rather more than usually dead and alive. Nominally, he
was not the _capitan_ of the launch, but it was clear that he was
the self-constituted boss of it. The captain of the steamer said as
much--Must make their heads swim, that fellow.

The mate answered Yes, sir, again; but another net full of boxes
was coming up. He went back to them. J. S. & Co. over X, two
times--Y in a diamond, one, he called. The checky and the
freight-clerk registered; and the work of the day was well under
way.

But in spite of the one white man in the launch below it did not go
with the speed the mate would have desired. The crew of the
alternating launch was demoralized and worthless to the last degree.
Half dead--and its a _fiesta_ besides, so theyre half drunk,
too, he remarked upon it to the captain. He pushed his cap back
with the visor on his crown, and ran across his wet forehead the
sleeve of a coat which had begun the day white. It was two oclock
of an October afternoon, and the heat was one of these things the
fullness whereof can only be realized from having been experienced,
which mere imagination is powerless to present.

The _lancheros_ were fumbling aimlessly at a load of steel rails.
There was no white man in this lighter, and the management of it
showed as much. Three rails were swung clashing together down on
some crates that smashed like match-boxes under them. The mate
raised his shoulders. It was not his business--so long as the
breakage was not done on the ship, he was not accountable for it.
Checky and the _capitan_ of the lanch could settle that on shore.

Whats in those crates? the captain inquired.

Merchandise--breakable, answered the first-officer, cheerfully.

Brutes, commented the captain. He gave expression to his views on
black-and-tan _lancheros_ in general.

The mate nodded. He bent over the hatchway. Quartermaster, he
called, send up somebody with a marlinspike to mend this sling.
Then he went over and looked down into the launch. _Despacio
abajo_, hurry up--eh? he shouted by way of suggestion to four
_lancheros_ who were pulling two ways on every rail, and had managed
to drop into the water a rope sling, which it was affording them
much concern and confusion, and the others much chattering and
amusement, to fish out again.

Marsden did not appear to be in a communicative mood, but the
captain was oblivious to moods after the manner of the insistently
good-humored and talkative.

It must be infernally unpleasant for that white fellow to work with
the dogs, he opined.

I expect so, said Marsden. It was not a tone encouraging a
pursuance of the subject. But the captain did not know it.

The _capitan_ wont stand his bossing some time, he kept it up;
therell be a row, and the whole crewll take only too much
pleasure in sticking their knives into him. He looks steady. Must be
in a pretty bad way to come to that. Dont know that I ever saw a
white man in the fix along here before. Hed better get out of it
while his skins whole.

Wonder who he is? he asked, presently. It was in the nature of an
inquiry addressed to no one in general, and the mate in particular.
The mate did not answer. He was concerning himself about a delay in
the hold, and called down some orders which were superfluous, in
view of the fact that the boatswain had just gone scuttling down the
ladder to attend to things himself.

The captain, however, was not put off. He had nothing to do. Do you
know? he asked, when the mate came below him again.

Know what, sir? Marsden was thinking his own thoughts. He had not
paid much attention.

Who that fellow is?

Man named Stanwood, said the first-officer, and he tried to head
the captain off by another order to the hold. It was accompanied by
profanity. The delay was nobodys fault, but, as is frequently the
case, the oaths expended in one direction were inspired from
another.

It was a pity the captain couldnt go aft and work a reckoning, or
talk to the passengers. Not that he objected to the captain. The
captain was a very good sort. It was the topic Marsden disliked.

Stanwood--rather imposing for a _lanchero_ in there with all them
black brutes, aint it? Not that hes any cleaner, though. Who told
you it was that?

Nobody, said Marsden; I know it.

It broke in upon the captain then that he was being discouraged.
Oh! he said. There followed a pause. Youd better have a new rope
through that block there when youre ready to hoist those iron
chimney stacks.

Yes, sir, answered the mate. The captain strolled off to the
quarter-deck to watch the second-steward fishing for sharks.

But time was not hanging heavy on Marsdens hands. There was a look
of bad weather, and if they were to get off that night, as might
prove highly desirable, there had got to be a lot more hustling than
the _lancheros_ seemed capable of.

The launch alongside had about all it could carry, and its _capitan_
was calling for the tug, the soft, mournful note of his conch shell
floating over the water to the shore. Marsden, by way of losing no
time himself, ran up to the hurricane-deck and on to the bridge, and
the whistle screeched across the blue-green of the sea, glinting in
the sun, across the little port among its palms, and beyond through
the lush jungle of the piling mountains, where the trees and vines
and undergrowth matted in the moist, breathless temperature of a
green-house. There were black clouds piling up behind the mountains,
and rolling low into the great caons and clefts of palm and fern
trees. Marsden eyed them as he went below again.

The launch alongside was loaded and sent adrift, to be picked up by
the tug and towed back to the wharf. The tug was bringing out the
other one--the one in which Stanwood was of the crew. Marsden wished
that he were not. A man may have been your enemy. He may have
brought about your finish. You may have thought for years that
nothing could be too bad for him. But all the same--if he is a white
man, one of your own kind, be he never so much of a scoundrel, it is
not good to see him working among Central American _lancheros_,
under a _capitan_ of the same breed. It is a trifle too low. He is
one of your own race, after all, and it hits you through the race.

Marsden stood considering, keeping his balance as the ship rolled,
at an angle of forty-five degrees to the line of the deck, backward
or forward, according as she went to weather or to lee. It would
have taken quite all the attention of a landsman to manage the feat
at any effort, and with that he would probably have gone upon his
skull or his nose. But Marsden was not even thinking about it. He
was thinking of the time that Stanwood had bribed a Guatemala high
official--with money already a long way from clean--and had thereby
established in that misgoverned little country his altogether
baseless claim to Marsdens own sugar _finca_ and refinery. It was
the kind of thing that can be, and is constantly being, done south
of twenty-three. And all your American citizenship can not avail to
save you; rather, in fact, the other way--one of the mishaps of
which you take your chance when you go to those countries to make a
fortune, away from the hustle of colder climes. But it had been a
blackguardly trick, nevertheless. And it had done for Marsden
financially for good and all. He had thought himself in luck
afterward to get the opportunity to ship to San Francisco on a P. M.
steamer as a hand. He had been down to his last _real_ then.

It had done for him in other ways, too. Even now that he had got his
masters license, and worked up by quick stages to
first-mate--well--his people on the other side of the continent
lived a different sort of life, went in for another and more
conventional style of thing. So did the people of the girl he had
meant to make mistress of his beautiful sugar plantation. He had
been in love with her since his school-days at home--pretty much
ever since he could remember, so far as that went. But it had
obviously been out of the question to expect her to marry a
deck-hand. He had stopped writing to her before long. It had been
better for her. As for himself--it didnt matter much. His own life
was very thoroughly spoiled, anyway. And the girl had married--a man
of her own sort, which he himself had ceased to be.

He owed all that to Stanwood. He owed a good deal to Stanwood. He
had always intended to pay it some day, too--at the first chance
that should present itself. Was this the chance? Perhaps.

Evidently wrong-doing had not prospered Stanwood. He had probably
come out with that degraded, dirty gang, in that lanch which stunk
of bilge water and other filth beyond a white mans stomach almost,
for no other reason than to get an opportunity to stow, or to ask a
passage up--as Marsden himself had been obliged to ask five years
before. He would not try it now, of course. He had nerve enough for
about anything, but hardly enough for that. He would have to wait at
least a week for another ship and another first-officer.

It happened, nevertheless, that Marsden wanted another sailor. At
the last port, Corinto, one of his men had gone ashore to see one of
the sick mothers he kept along the coast, and that had been the last
seen of _him_. Marsden was anxious to fill the vacancy, but Stanwood
should not have it. He could work with the launch gang a while
longer. It was small enough punishment for his misdeeds.

The launch swung alongside. Stanwood was in her. He was having an
altercation with the _capitan_, too, and the _capitan_ had been
taking more _tequila_, apparently. It would be the course of wisdom
for the Gringo _lanchero_ to hold his peace and his tongue, if he
were not looking for a speedy exit from a bad sort of life. The
_capitan_ and his gang would like nothing better than severally and
collectively to stick knives into him.

Once again the launch went off, discharged her cargo, and came back
for another load. This time it was before the other launch was quite
ready to be towed away, so she made fast, bow and stern, to her, and
the idle _lancheros_ fell to eating some food they had brought with
them as they waited. They crouched together in a group, getting a
good deal of fun out of it. There were the inevitable _frijoles_ and
bread and bottled coffee, and there was besides a most unwonted
treat, a leg of mutton. They passed it from one to the other, and
each gnawed at it with his gleaming teeth, grinning over the game.

Stanwood crouched among them. But he was not having fun out of it.
He was not grinning. He scooped up the common mess of black beans
with scraps of crust. He was ragged and dirty as they were. But he
did not take his degradation with their good humor. He looked sullen
and lean and hungry.

Marsden watched him. It was not a pleasant sight, and he felt a kind
of sick disgust and pity. But he wanted to see if the bone of meat
would go to the white man in the end, and if the white man would
take it. It came to the last of the natives. He picked it all but
clean with a show of keen enjoyment. There were a few shreds left.
He examined them. Then, with the insolence of a base breed having
the upper hand, he tossed it over at Stanwood. It struck him on the
chest. Marsden could see the killing hate in his eyes, and the
shutting of his teeth under the ragged black beard. Then--and he was
conscious of a deep relief--he saw him pick up the bone, stand in
the scow, and drop it over into the water.

Marsden turned away. It was not only of relief that he was
conscious, but of a killing hate of the half-breed _lancheros_ equal
to Stanwoods own, as well.

The clouds which, at noon, had been rising behind the mountains and
dropping dark into the valleys and caons, had spread half over the
sky. There was a low, whining wind, growing steadily stronger. And
the seven thousand miles of sea stretching unbroken to the west was
sending in heavier ground swells to the open harbor. The steamer
went heaving from side to side. Even the sailors were finding it not
always easy to keep their footing. And it was now that the great
iron chimney stacks had to be brought up. It would not have been a
small matter at the best. At present it was extremely dangerous. The
loaded lighter had gone off. The tackle had been changed on the
block of the foremost derrick to new hemp, yellow and strong.

There was the huge clangor and rumble of hollow iron striking
against iron down in the cargo-space. The mate had taken out his own
whistle. The responsibility was too great to be intrusted to
subordinates here. He shrilled one order after another, or shouted
them in nautical English and strange Spanish, and they were answered
from the depths of the hold. The monster tube rolled into the
opening guided by a man naked to the waist, on whose brown torso,
swelling with muscles, the sweat rolled and glistened. The stack
rose slowly upward--roaring its vast basso protests as it
struck--fifty feet long, a yard in diameter, heavy, unwieldy,
plunging as the ship rolled to starboard, down and down, and back to
port, down and down again.

It was a formidable thing, all but unmanageable even there. But once
clear of the hatchway it flung itself, charging and swinging and
threshing, with the great iron bellow of warning. The sailors jumped
from its way. There was only the mate to handle it. The ship gave a
heavy lurch to starboard. The chimney whirled and lunged toward him
with a vibrating song of onslaught, and the voice of the white man
in the launch below called an involuntary Look out! An instant of
the hesitation of fear and the mate would have been struck overboard
by all the force of the great cylinder of iron. But he put out his
hand and pushed it, and it swung off harmlessly enough, as docile as
it was formidable.

The little whistle shrilled, the derrick moved its long arm around
and out, and the stack hung overside, directly above the launch. The
_lancheros_ had retreated to the sides, ready to scramble out of the
way, or to jump overboard, if need should be. They stood looking up
at it uneasily. If the rope were to break or slip, if the mate were
to give a wrong order----

Suddenly the steamer came over to starboard with a deep roll, and
the great stack dropped with her. The mate saw the chance of mishap.
His whistle piped a sharp, quick order to hoist. The _lancheros_
cowered, their arms over their heads--all but Stanwood. He stood
watching a chance. The stack swung and whirled, gigantic and awful,
not a foot above his reach. But the rope had been just too short.
The ship heaved back, and with a reverberation of metal thunder as
it struck against the hull, the cylinder swung up again.

Courage came back to the _capitan_ of the lighter then, and with it
all his powers of mean impertinence. He shouted up curses at the
first-officer. They were vile, as curses can only be vile in that
language of prayer. And the first-officer understood them
perfectly. But he had no time to take notice of them. The ship had
got to get off that night. And the stacks had got to be unloaded.
But it was far from simple to get even this first one lowered into
the launch. Several times they dropped it almost to its place, then,
because the empty scow bobbed one way in a swell, and the ship
another, it had to be hoisted once more. And once the windlass
refused to work at a signal. There was a delay until it could be
repaired. The _capitan_ of the _lancheros_ waxed more impertinent
and abusive; the _tequila_ with which he had been refreshing himself
on shore was beginning to take its violent effect. In the absorption
of his abuse of the ship and all its crew, he forgot to order his
own men. The stack was coming down once again, with a fair chance of
landing squarely in the bottom at last--if the _lancheros_ should be
quick enough at guiding it. But they were doing nothing, frightened
half out of their little available senses. And their _capitan_ was
yelling foul words aloft. It was a critical instant. The white
_lanchero_ knew it. He gave an order. It was all the men needed--a
head. They made to obey. But the boss, in the madness of _tequila_,
turned on his white hand. Was _he_ the _capitan_? Was _he_ in
command? He had the signal conch shell in his hand. He brought it
down with a cracking blow on Stanwoods head.

The first-officer, watching the critical descent of the iron monster
with all his attention, saw Stanwood spring at the bosss throat,
saw the knives of the other _lancheros_ drawn, saw them swarming
astern to the rescue of their fellow, ten of them against one. And
the iron stack was swaying just above them. Another starboard
roll--they would be crushed under it. And another moment lost and
the Gringo would have ten knives in his neck and back. The little
whistle shrilled sharply twice, and even as its order was obeyed and
the windlass reversed, the first-officer was sliding overside down
the manrope, had kicked himself off from the hull, and landed in the
launch.

It was a short fight. The first-officer had his six-shooter, the
white _lanchero_ his knife, like another. The natives were fierce
with blood lust, and the drunkenness of knife gleam and _tequila_.
But it was a matter of coolness and of the dominant race. Before the
captain on the hurricane-deck could run to his cabin for his
carbine, it was over with. Two _lancheros_ had disabling bullet
wounds, and the rest had retreated to the bow, all the flush of
fight gone out of them, whipped and cringing and scared.

The first-officer and the white _lanchero_ stood astern. They had
been cut, and the ducks of the first-officer were red. Blood oozed
through the _lancheros_ rags. He got breath for a moment clutching
at the gunwale. Then he turned to the first-officer. Thank you, he
said.

Marsden looked at him, slowly, from his shaggy black hair to his
bare feet. Dont mention it, he answered. Then he looked up at the
ship. Unhook that stack for the present, and send down the chair
for us, he ordered, coolly.

He considered his left arm. The blood was bubbling out just above
the elbow. He knew what it meant. He had seen the thing before. It
would be all right once a tourniquet should be put above it. But
before that, before the doctor could get down in the chair, he would
very likely faint. He was feeling light-headed already--and his eyes
were glazing over. He shut his right hand hard above the wound.

You cant stay with this, Stanwood, he told the _lanchero_. His
voice sounded to himself far away and dead. He was not altogether
sure what he was saying. He glanced up. Away and away overhead in a
vague distance of hot blue, the chair was beginning to lower. He
must make haste. He spoke carefully, with precision, swaying
unsteadily as the launch rolled.

We lost a man at Corinto, he went on; we--need an--other. You can
ship to Frisco with us if---- he staggered, then caught himself,
if you--like.

The chair with the doctor touched the bottom of the scow. The
first-officer had fallen, and was lying quite still. The white
_lanchero_ was bending over him, clenching his two hands tight about
the wounded arm.




THE RAJAHS NEMESIS

By W. C. Morrow


In my travels abroad I once encountered an extraordinary
illustration of the shifts to which Nature will resort in her
efforts to overcome the inconvenience arising from a deprivation of
the tools with which she is accustomed to work; and the facts of the
case are sufficiently peculiar and tragic to warrant their relation.

I was summoned from Calcutta to proceed to the heart of India, being
wanted by a certain rich and powerful rajah to perform a dangerous
surgical operation upon one of the women of his household. I found
the rajah to be a man of lofty character, noble and generous; but,
as circumstances afterward developed, he was possessed of a sense of
cruelty purely Oriental and in sharp contrast to the extreme
indolence of his disposition. He was so grateful for the success
which attended my mission that he urged me to remain his guest at
the palace as long as it should please me to stay; and, as may be
surmised, I thankfully accepted the invitation.

One of his servants early attracted my notice, for he was a man of
marvelous capacity of malice and vindictiveness. His name was
Neranya, and I am certain that there must have been a large
proportion of Malay blood in his veins; for, unlike the Indians
(from whom he differed also in complexion), he was extremely active,
alert, nervous, and sensitive. He had one redeeming trait, and that
was love for his master.

Once his violent temper led him to the commission of an atrocious
crime--the fatal stabbing of a dwarf. In punishment for this the
rajah ordered that Neranyas right arm (the offending one) be
severed from his body. The sentence was executed in rather a
bungling fashion by a stupid fellow armed with an axe; and I, being
a surgeon, was compelled, in order to save Neranyas life, to
perform a second amputation upon the stump of the arm, which left
not a vestige of the limb remaining.

Just here, as a possible partial explanation of the terrible and
extraordinary things which followed, I must call intelligent
attention to a matter which has long engaged my notice.

We see that when one arm has been lost, the other acquires an
unwonted dexterity, thus measurably compensating for the loss.
Further, if both arms have been removed, an extraordinary nimbleness
is exhibited in the feet, for they come to discharge to a
considerable extent the functions of hands--to so great an extent
that the toes display a power of prehension which one might suppose
had not existed in them since our abandonment, in the evolutionary
process, of the tree-climbing habit. Thus, with the toes an armless
man may learn to hold a pen and to write, to load and fire a pistol,
to cut food with a knife, and convey it to his mouth with a fork, to
sew, and to do a hundred other useful things, and some which are
purely ornamental, as painting, playing a harp, and the like. I once
saw an armless man give his wife a sound thrashing with a rawhide
whip.

If, now, one of the legs be removed, the remaining foot will develop
an almost redoubled capacity, its agility being marvelous. But
suppose that this member, too, should be parted with--has Nature
reached the end of her resources? Remember, the dexterity that she
developed in those members which remained after the amputation of
others was primarily of a character to take the place of that which
enabled the others to minister to the needs of life. Granted that
both arms and both legs are gone, has Nature, I have asked, reached
the limit of her resources, in the accomplishment of an earnest and
controlling purpose, praiseworthy or perverted?

Let us inquire into the philosophy of the process by which this
compensating dexterity is developed. It is easy for the scientists
to tell us that this is done by the concentration of the will and
the persistent exercise of the muscles in obedience thereto; but to
my understanding this explanation is not sufficient. The principle
of life, the amazing persistence of this principle, and the ways in
which this persistence is maintained, are all inscrutable mysteries,
necessarily and forever beyond our comprehension. It is the fashion
of transcendentalism (not followed, however, by the greater
scientists) to maintain that we have a spiritual, as well as a
material, nature; and by evolution there has grown out of that
belief another, that this spiritual nature is imperishable,
indestructible--the fashionable, though inaccurate, term is
immortal. The spirit is assumed to be the _ego_, the
consciousness--that which fixes individuality and determines
identity.

Now, we know that mind is consciousness, and that the mind has its
seat within the brain. But the brain is identical in its chemical,
structural, molecular, and functional characteristics with the
nerves which lead from it and ramify throughout the body; therefore
the mind, and consequently the spirit, ramifies throughout the body;
and hence it follows that if the spirit is indestructible and should
be separated from the body (by death or otherwise) it must have the
essential form and appearance of the body. The fact of our being
unable to see it presents no obstacle to the argument; for we are
unable to see countless things which we are certain exist. The
argument thus put in logical shape may account, by unconscious
synthetical reasoning, for the prevalent belief, seemingly inherent,
that the spirit retains the form of the body after death; for there
is no other conception of the human spirits form--we never imagine
it as having the shape of a ball, or a comet, or a balloon, or a
cloud, or as being formless.

Then it must follow that, assuming the spirit to be indestructible
and as having the form of the body, the amputation of a limb does
not exterminate that part of the spirit which occupied that limb;
but as the indivisibility of the spirit must be admitted as an
essential factor of identity and individuality, that part of the
spirit which had occupied the amputated limb must always be present
in the place where the limb had been, and must there, in that place,
possess all the consciousness and intelligence which belonged to it
before the limb was amputated.

This argument may be pursued to some astonishing conclusions which
do not vitally concern the purposes of this relation. I might be
asked, for instance, if the potentiality of a spirit is dependent
upon its possession and control of a body, of what avail is it to
speculate upon the unseparated existence of the spirit of an
amputated limb? But there are some who declare that this dependence
need not and does not always exist.

This, it must be understood, is not the line of argument pursued by
scientists, for they have a purely materialistic explanation for all
the singular phenomena resulting from amputation; but are they not
inconsistent? They admit the inscrutable mystery of the principle of
life and all its countless corollaries, and yet they glibly explain
the evidently marvelous results of a serious interference with the
normal operation of that principle, as in the case of amputation. Is
it not possible that there is danger of too much explanation of
these wonderful mysteries?

Let us proceed with the strange story of Neranya. After the loss of
his arm, he developed an increased fiendishness, an augmented
vindictiveness. His love for his master was changed to hate, and in
his mad anger, he flung discretion to the winds. He was so unruly
and violent in disposition that he could not conceal his feelings.
The rajah, a proud, scornful man, increased Neranyas hate by
treating him with contempt and scorn, which had the effect of
driving the wretch to frenzy. In a mad moment he sprang upon the
rajah with a knife, but he was seized and disarmed. To his
unspeakable dismay the rajah sentenced him for this offense to
suffer amputation of the remaining arm. It was done as in the former
instance.

This had a temporary effect in curbing the mans spirit, or rather
in changing the outward manifestation of his diabolic nature. Being
armless, he was at first largely at the mercy of those who
ministered to his wants--a duty which I undertook to see was
properly discharged, for I felt an interest in this horribly
perverted and distorted nature. This sense of helplessness, combined
with a damnable scheme for revenge which he had secretly formed,
caused Neranya to change his fierce, impetuous, and unruly conduct
into a smooth, quiet, insinuating manner, which he carried so
artfully as not only to secure a peace and comfort which he had
never known before, but also to deceive those with whom he was
brought in contact, including the rajah himself.

Neranya, being exceedingly quick, nimble, and intelligent, and
having a tremendous will, turned his attention to the cultivation of
dexterity in his legs, feet, and toes; and in due time he was able
to perform wonderful feats with those members, such as I have
noticed already. His capacity especially for destructive mischief
was restored.

One morning, the rajahs only son, a young man of an exceedingly
lovable and noble character, was found dead in bed. His murder was a
singularly atrocious one, the body being mutilated in a sickening
manner; but, in my eyes, the most significant of all the mutilations
was _the entire removal and disappearance of the young mans arms_.
In the wild distraction which ensued in the palace upon the
discovery of the mutilated body, the importance of that one fact was
overlooked. It was the basis, however, of a minute investigation,
which I made, and which, in time, led me to the discovery of the
murderer.

The murder of the young man nearly proved the death of the rajah,
who was thrown into a serious illness, which required all my skill
and attention to combat. It was not, therefore, until his recovery
that there began a systematic and intelligent inquiry into the
murder. I said nothing of my own discoveries and conclusions, and in
no way interfered with the work of the rajah and his officers; but,
after their efforts had failed and I had completed my own work, I
submitted to the rajah a written report, making a close analysis of
all the circumstances, and closing by charging Neranya with the
murder. (I still have a copy of that singular report, and I regret
that its length prevents its insertion here. It deals with unusual
facts and is an illustration of the value of special knowledge and
pure reason in the detection of crime.) My facts, arguments, and
deductions were so convincing that the rajah at once ordered Neranya
to be put to death, this to be accomplished by slow and frightful
torture. The sentence was so cruel, so revolting, that it filled me
with horror, and I implored that the wretch might be shot. Finally,
purely through a sense of noble gratitude, the rajah yielded. When
Neranya was charged with the crime, he denied it, of course; but,
seeing that the rajah was convinced, and upon being shown my report
(which embodied a knowledge of anatomy and surgery that he had never
dreamed of), he threw aside all restraint, and, dancing, laughing,
and shrieking in the most horrible manner, confessed his guilt and
gloated over it--all this, believing that he would be shot on the
morrow.

During the night, however, the rajah changed his mind, and sending
for me in the morning, informed me of his new decision. It was that
Neranyas life should be spared, but that both his legs should be
crushed with heavy hammers and then that I should amputate both
limbs as close to the trunk as possible! I was too much astounded to
utter a protest; and, besides there was grounded within me that
unyielding, and often inhuman, medical principle, which counts the
saving of life at any cost the highest duty. I may add that,
appended to this horrible sentence, was a provision for keeping the
maimed wretch a prisoner and torturing him at regular intervals by
such means as afterward might be devised.

Sickened to the heart by the awful duty which confronted me, I
nevertheless performed it with success, and I must pass over in
silence the hideous details of the whole affair. Let it suffice to
say that Neranya escaped death very narrowly, and that he was a long
time in recovering his wonted vitality. During all these weeks the
rajah neither saw him nor made inquiries concerning him, but when,
as in duty bound, I made an official report that the man had
recovered his strength, the rajahs eyes brightened, and he emerged
with deadly activity from the stupor of grief in which he so long
had been plunged. He ordered certain preparations made for the
future care of his now helpless victim.

The rajahs palace was a noble structure, but it is necessary here
to describe only the grand hall. It was an immense room, with a
floor of polished stone and a lofty arched ceiling. A subdued light
stole into it through stained glass set in the roof and in windows
on the sides. In the middle of the room was a fountain which threw
up a tall, slender column of water in the centre, with smaller jets
grouped around it. Across one end of the hall, half-way to the
ceiling, was a balcony, which communicated with the upper story of a
wing, and from which a flight of stairs descended to the stone floor
of the hall. This room was kept at a uniform temperature, and during
the hot summers it was delightfully cool. This was the rajahs
favorite lounging-place, and when the nights were hot, he had his
cot brought hither and here he slept.

This hall was chosen for Neranyas permanent abiding-place; here was
he to stay as long as he might live, without ever a glimpse of the
face of nature or the glorious heavens. To one of his restless,
nervous, energetic, discontented nature, the cruelty of such
confinement was worse than death; but there was more yet of
suffering in store for him, for at the rajahs order there was
constructed a small iron pen, in which Neranya was to be kept. This
pen was circular and about four feet in diameter. It was elevated on
four slender iron posts, ten feet from the floor, and was placed
half-way between the fountain and the balcony. Around the edge of
the pen was erected an iron railing, four feet high, but the top was
left open for the convenience of the servants whose duty it should
be to care for him. These precautions for his safe confinement were
taken at my suggestion, for, although the man was deprived of all
four of his limbs, I still feared that he might develop some
extraordinary, unheard-of power for mischief. It was provided that
the attendants should reach his cage by means of a movable ladder.
All these arrangements having been made and Neranya hoisted into his
prison, the rajah emerged upon the balcony to see him, and the two
deadly enemies faced each other. The rajahs stern face paled at the
hideous sight which met his gaze, but he soon recovered, and the
old, hard, cruel, sinister look returned. Neranya, by an
extraordinary motion, had wriggled himself into an upright position,
his back propped against the railing. His black hair and beard had
grown long, and they added to the natural ferocity of his aspect.
Upon seeing the rajah his eyes blazed with a terrible light, his
lips parted, and he gasped for breath. His face was white with rage
and despair, and his thin, distended nostrils quivered.

The rajah folded his arms and gazed down upon the frightful wreck
which he had made. Neranya returned the gaze with blazing eyes. Oh,
the pathos of that picture, the inhumanity of it, the deep and
dismal tragedy of it! Who might look into that wild, desperate heart
and see and understand the frightful turmoil there, the surging,
choking passions, unbridled but impotent ferocity, frantic thirst
for a vengeance that should be deeper than hell! Neranya gazed, his
shapeless body heaving, his eyes ablaze, and then, in a strong,
clear voice which rang throughout the great hall, with rapid speech
he hurled at the rajah the most insulting defiance, the most awful
curses. He cursed the womb that conceived him, the food that
nourished him, the wealth that brought him power; cursed him in the
name of Buddha and all the prophets, in the name of heaven and of
hell; cursed him by the sun, the moon, and the stars, by all
continents, oceans, mountains, and rivers, by all things living;
cursed his head, his heart, his entrails; cursed him in a furious
outpouring of unmentionable words; heaped insults and contumely upon
him; called him a knave, a beast, a fool, a liar, an infamous and
damnable coward. Never had I heard such eloquence of defiance,
curses, and vituperation; never had heard so terrible a
denunciation, so frightful and impetuous an outflow of insults.

The rajah heard it all calmly, without the movement of a muscle or
the slightest change of countenance, and when the poor wretch had
exhausted his strength and fallen helpless and silent to the floor,
the rajah, with a grim, cold smile, turned and strode away.

The days passed. The rajah, not deterred by Neranyas curses often
heaped upon him, spent even more time than formerly in the great
hall, and slept there oftener at night, and finally Neranya, wearied
of cursing and defying him, maintained a sullen silence. The man was
a study for me, and I noticed every change in his fleeting moods.
Generally his condition was one of miserable despair, which he
attempted bravely to conceal. Even the boon of suicide had been
denied him, for when he was erect the top of the rail was a foot
above his head, and he could not throw himself over it and crush his
skull on the stone floor below; and when he had tried to starve
himself the attendants forced food down his throat, so that he
abandoned such attempts. At times his eyes would blaze and his
breath would come in gasps, for imaginary vengeance was working
within him; but steadily he became quieter and more tractable, and
was pleasant and responsive when I conversed with him. Whatever the
tortures the rajah had decided upon, none had as yet been ordered,
and although Neranya knew that they were in contemplation, he never
referred to them or complained of his lot.

The awful climax of this terrible situation was reached one night,
and even after this lapse of years I can not approach a description
of it without a shudder.

It was a hot night, and the rajah had gone to sleep in the great
hall of the palace, lying on a high cot. I had been unable to sleep
in my apartment, and so I stole softly into the hall through the
heavily curtained entrance at the end furthest from the balcony. As
I did so, I heard a peculiar soft sound above the gentle patter of
the fountain. Neranyas cage was partly concealed from my view by
the spraying water, but I suspected that the unusual sound came from
him. Stealing a little to one side and crouching against the dark
hangings of the wall, I could faintly see him in the dim light which
illumined the hall, and then I discovered that my surmise was
correct--Neranya was at work. Curious to learn more, I sank into a
thick robe on the floor and watched him. My sight was keen and my
eyes soon became accustomed to the faint, soft light.

To my great astonishment Neranya was tearing off with his teeth the
bag which served as his outer garment. He did it cautiously, casting
sharp glances frequently at the rajah, who, sleeping soundly on his
cot, breathed heavily. After starting a strip with his teeth,
Neranya would by the same means attach it to the railing of his cage
and then wriggle away, much after the manner of a caterpillars
crawling, and this would cause the strip to be torn out the full
length of his garment. He repeated this operation with incredible
patience and skill until his entire garment had been torn into
strips. Two or three of these he tied together with his tongue,
lips, and teeth, and secured the ends in a similar way to the
railing, thus making a short swing on one side. This done, he tied
the other strips together, doubling some which were weak, and in
this way he made a rope several feet in length, one end of which he
made fast to the rail. It then began to dawn upon me that he was
going to make an insane attempt--impossible of achievement without
hands or feet, arms or legs--to escape from his cage! For what
purpose? The rajah was asleep in the hall----! I caught my breath.
Oh, the desperate, insane thirst for revenge which consumed the
impotent, miserable Neranya! Even though he should accomplish the
impossible feat of climbing over the railing of his cage and falling
to the stone floor below (for how could he slide down the rope?), he
would in all probability be killed or stunned; and even if he should
escape these dangers it would be impossible for him to climb upon
the cot without rousing the rajah, and impossible even though the
rajah were dead! A man without arms or legs might descend by
falling, he never could ascend by climbing. Amazed at his daring,
and fully convinced that his sufferings had destroyed his reason, I
watched him with breathless, absorbing interest.

He caught the longer rope in his teeth at a point not far from the
rail. Then, wriggling with great effort to an upright position, his
back braced against the rail, he put his chin over the swing and
worked toward one end. He tightened the grasp of his chin upon the
swing, and, with tremendous exertion, working the lower end of his
spine against the railing, he began gradually to ascend. The labor
was so great that he was compelled to pause at intervals, and his
breathing was hard and painful, and even while thus resting he was
in a position of terrible strain, and his pushing against the swing
caused it to press hard against his windpipe and nearly suffocate
him.

After amazing effort he elevated the lower end of his body until it
protruded above the railing, the top of which was now across the
lower end of his abdomen. Gradually he worked his body over, going
backward, until there was sufficient excess of weight on the outer
side, and then with a quick lurch he raised his head and shoulders
and swung into a horizontal position. Of course, he would have
fallen to the floor below had it not been for the rope which he held
in his teeth. With such nicety had he calculated the distance
between his mouth and the point of fastening, that the rope
tightened and checked him just as he reached the horizontal position
on the rail. If one had told me beforehand that such a feat as this
man had accomplished was possible, I would have thought him a fool.
I continued to watch with intense interest.

Neranya was now balanced on his stomach across the top of the
railing, and he eased his position somewhat by bending his spine and
hanging down as much as possible. Having rested in this position for
some minutes, he began cautiously to slide off, slowly paying out
the rope through his teeth. Now, it is quite evident that the rope
would have escaped from his teeth laterally when he slightly relaxed
his hold to let it slip, had it not been for a very ingenious device
to which he had resorted. This consisted in his having made a turn
of the rope around his neck before he attached the swing, thus
securing a three-fold control of the rope--one by his teeth, another
by friction against his neck, and a third by his ability to compress
it between his cheek and shoulder.

A stupendous and seemingly impossible part of his task was
accomplished. Could he reach the floor in safety? Gradually he
worked himself backward over the rail, in momentary imminent danger
of falling; but his nerve never quivered, and I could see a
wonderful glitter in his eyes. With something of a lurch, his body
fell against the outer side of the railing, and he was hanging by
his chin. Slowly he worked his chin away and then hung suspended by
the rope, his neck bearing the weight of his trunk. By almost
imperceptible degrees, with infinite caution, he descended the rope,
and finally his unwieldy body rolled upon the floor, safe and
unhurt!

What next? Was this some superhuman monster who had accomplished
this impossible miracle? Would he immediately spring to invisible
feet, run to the rajahs bedside, and stab him with an invisible
dagger held in an invisible hand? No; I was too philosophic for such
mad thoughts; there was plenty of time for interference. I was quick
and strong. I would wait awhile and see what other impossible things
this monster could do.

Imagine my astonishment when, instead of approaching the sleeping
rajah, Neranya took another direction. Then it was only escape after
all that the miserable wretch contemplated and not the murder of the
rajah! But how could he escape? The only possible way to reach the
outer air was by ascending the stairs to the balcony and leaving by
the corridor, which opened upon it, and surely it was impossible for
Neranya to ascend that long flight of stairs! Nevertheless, he made
for the stairs. He progressed by lying on his back, with his face
toward the point of destination, bowing his spine upward, and thus
causing his head and shoulders to slip nearly an inch forward,
straightening his spine and pushing forward the lower end of his
back a distance equal to that which his head had advanced, each time
pressing his head to the floor to keep it from slipping. His
progress was slow, painful, and laborious, as the floor was
slippery, rendering difficult the task of taking a firm hold with
his head. Finally, he arrived at the foot of the stairs.

It was at once manifest that his purpose was to ascend them. The
desire for freedom must have been strong within him. Wriggling to an
upright position against the newel-post, he looked up at the great
height which he had to climb and sighed; but there was no dimming of
the bright light in his eyes. How could he accomplish the impossible
task before him?

His solution of the problem was very simple. While leaning against
the newel-post, he fell in a diagonal position and lay safe upon the
bottom step on his side. Turning upon his back, he wriggled forward
along the step the necessary few inches to reach the rail, scrambled
to an upright, but inverted, position against the rail, and then
fell and landed safely on the second step. This explains the manner
in which, with inconceivable labor, he accomplished the ascent of
the entire flight of stairs.

It being evident that the rajah was not the object of Neranyas
movements, the anxiety which I had felt on that account was entirely
dispelled, and I watched Neranya now only with a sense of absorbing
interest and curiosity. The things which he had accomplished were
entirely beyond the wildest imagination, and, in a sense, I was in a
condition of helpless wonder. The sympathy which I had always felt
for the unhappy man was now greatly quickened; and as small as I
knew the chances of his ultimate escape to be, I nevertheless hoped
that he would succeed. There was a bare chance that he would fall
into the hands of the British soldiery not far away, and I inwardly
prayed for his success. Any assistance from me, however, was out of
the question; nor should it ever be known that I had witnessed the
escape.

Neranya was now upon the balcony, and I could dimly see him
wriggling along as he slowly approached the door. The rail was low,
and I could barely see him beyond it. Finally he stopped and
wriggled to an upright position. His back was toward the hall, but
he slowly turned around and faced me. At that great distance I could
not distinguish his features, but the slowness with which he had
worked, even before he had fully accomplished the ascent of the
stairs, was evidence all too eloquent of his extreme exhaustion.
Nothing but a most desperate resolution could have sustained him
thus far, but he had about drawn upon the last remnant of his
strength.

He looked around the hall with a sweeping glance, and then upon the
rajah, who was soundly sleeping immediately beneath him, over twenty
feet down. He looked long and earnestly, sinking lower, and lower,
and lower upon the rail. Suddenly, to my inconceivable astonishment
and dismay, he toppled over and shot downward from his lofty height.
I held my breath, expecting to see him crushed into a bloody mass on
the stones beneath, but instead of that he fell full upon the
rajahs breast, crashing through the cot, and hurling him to the
floor. I sprang forward with a loud cry for help, and was instantly
at the scene of the disaster. Imagine my indescribable horror when I
found that Neranyas teeth were buried in the rajahs throat! With a
fierce clutch I tore the wretch away, but the blood was pouring out
in torrents from the frightfully lacerated throat, the chest was
crushed in, and the rajah was gasping in the death agony. People
came running in, terrified. I turned to Neranya. He lay upon his
back, his face hideously smeared with blood. Murder, and not escape,
was his intention from the beginning; he had adopted the only plan
by which there was a possibility of accomplishing it. I knelt beside
him, and saw that he was dying--his back had been broken by the
fall. He smiled sweetly into my face; and the triumphant look of
accomplished revenge sat upon his face even in death.




THE MAN-HUNTERS REWARD

By Buckey ONeill


That isnt a bad reward!

No; if a fellow could catch him, he would make pretty good wages.
Lets see, and the second speaker began to read the postal-card
that the postmaster at Hard Scrabble had just tacked to the door of
the store that constituted the office, so that every one might
read:

                          TAKE HIM IN!

    $500 Reward will be paid for the arrest and delivery of Rube
    White to the sheriff of Yavapai County. He is about
    twenty-five years old, six feet tall, and slim, with light
    complexion, and has a big scar on the right side of his
    face. He is wanted for robbery and other crimes. If killed
    in resisting arrest the reward will be paid on satisfactory
    proof of his identity. When last heard from was making for
    the Tonto Basin country.

By the time the reader had finished, a crowd of half a dozen or more
men surrounded him.

Now, if that feller is headed for the Tonto Basin country, it
wouldnt be much of a trick to take him, said the first speaker,
reflectively, as if debating with himself the advisability of making
the attempt.

If you hear me, he aint going to be taken in, and the feller that
tries it is going to have his hands full. They have been after him
for two or three years and aint got him yet. They say hes right on
the shoot, remarked another of the crowd.

Well, a feller ought to know him as soon as he sees him, from that
description, hazarded the first speaker, if he got up close enough
to see the scar; and then all hed have to do would be to turn loose
at him if he didnt throw up his hands when you told him. Besides,
nobody but him would try to cross over the mountains into the basin
with this snow on the ground. Blamed if I dont think Ill go after
him.

Well, somebody ought to round him up, asserted some one in the
crowd; hes been foolin roun hyah long enough, jes havin his own
way, sorter as if the country belonged to him. Durned if I wouldnt
go with you, Hi, if I didnt have to take this grub over to the boys
in camp.

Well, if any of you want to go, all right. Im going, replied the
man addressed as Hi.

It was not the first time that Hi Lansing had been on such
expeditions. He was one of those men for whom danger seems to have a
fascination. At his remark, Frank Crandall, a young fellow who had
been standing quietly by, volunteered to accompany him. The crowd
turned toward him with more interest than they had thus far evinced
during the entire proceedings. It was but a few months since he had
come among them, fresh from the East, to take charge of one of the
mines which had been closed down by the winters storms. For weeks
he had been cooped up in the isolated settlement, and he longed for
something to break its monotony.

Well, get your horse and gun, and come, replied Hi, and, in an
instant, the two men had left the room to arm and equip themselves
for the chase, while the loungers gathered around the stove to
discuss the probabilities of their success. In a few minutes, the
two men rode past the door, each armed with a rifle and six-shooter,
and the crowd, stepping out, bade them good-by, with the
oft-repeated warning: Be keerful and dont let him get the drop on
ye.

The crust of the unbroken snow cracked crisply under foot as the two
rode on fast, leaving the little settlement in their rear. For some
time neither spoke; but, at last, the silence was broken by Lansing,
asking his young companion: Did you ever try this kind of thing
before?

No, replied the young man; I never have.

Well, then, you want to be keerful. If you dont lose yer head,
youre all right. The only danger is that we may run on him before
we know it.

And if we do, what then? asked the young man.

Well, he will probably commence shooting, and if he does, and you
arnt hit the first rattle out of the box, why you want to git offn
your horse and git behind something and shoot back. If ther aint
anything to git behind, keep your horse between you and him, and
keep a-shooting. Whatever you do, dont let go of your gun. But what
we want to do is to see him first, and then weve got the play on
him, and all you have to do is to tell him to throw up.

And if he dont throw up? asked Crandall.

Why, then you let him have it. The reward will be paid just the
same.

The apparent indifference with which Lansing spoke of the entire
matter, much as if he were discussing the best method of hunting a
wild animal, shocked the young man; but he had committed himself too
far to withdraw. Besides he had that feeling that all men have when
they are young--the curiosity to know whether or not he could rely
on himself when danger threatened.

We should strike his trail on the hills here, if he is really
headed for the basin country, said Lansing. They had been riding
for several hours in silence through the snow, unbroken by aught
save the scattered pines that here and there dotted the mesa. Before
them towered the mountains through whose passes the man whom they
were after would have to pass in his search for safety in the
half-settled wilds beyond.

As the two men rode along, scanning in each direction the
snow-covered mesa, Lansing suddenly wheeled his horse to the right,
and when Crandall joined him he pointed to a narrow trail where two
horses had passed through the snow.

Thats him. Hes driving one horse and leading another, and he
hasnt passed by very long, either. See, the snow hasnt had time to
drift in it, said he.

With the discovery his whole demeanor had changed. A new look came
into his eyes, and his voice sounded strange. He even grasped his
weapons in a manner different to that he had heretofore displayed.
Hes right ahead, and we want to look out, the older man
continued, as they began to follow the trail. As they approached the
summit of each hill they would stop their horses, and Lansing would
dismount and crawl to the top so that he might look, without being
discovered, into the valley beyond, in order that they might not
come on the fugitive too suddenly.

They had traveled this way for several miles, when, reining in his
horse, Lansing pointed to what seemed an old road leading off to the
right of the one they were following, and said: Thats the
cut-off into the basin. I thought he would take it, but he
probably doesnt know the country. You had better take it and ride
on ahead until you strike the road were on again. Then if you cant
find his tracks, you had better ride back to meet me until you do. I
will follow the trail up.

The young man tried to expostulate with Lansing for the great risk
he was assuming, in thus following the trail alone, but his
companion was obdurate, and, cutting the argument short by again
warning the young man to be on his guard, he rode on, following the
trail in the snow, while the younger man, finding objection useless,
took the cut-off road. He had no difficulty in following it, and
he wondered why the man they were in pursuit of had not taken
advantage of it. The whole pursuit seemed almost like a dream to
him. The snow, unbroken save by his horses footfall, stretched away
mile after mile in every direction, with here and there a pine
through whose branches the wind seemed to sob and sigh, making the
only noise that broke the stillness of the wintry afternoon. It
added to this feeling. Not a thing in sight. He began to depict in
his own mind the manner of man they were pursuing. He had almost
forgotten his name. After all, what had the man done that he, Frank
Crandall, should be seeking his blood? Perhaps, like himself, the
man had a mother and sisters to grieve over any misfortune that
would overtake him. These and a hundred kindred thoughts passed
through his mind. The sun was fast declining as he passed from the
cutoff into the main road again. The air was getting chilly with
the coming of evening, and the snow in the distance took on colors
of pink and purple where the rays of the setting sun touched the
mountain peaks. He scanned the main road eagerly to see if the man
they were in pursuit of had passed, but the snow that covered it was
unbroken. Then he rode back on the main road, in the direction from
which he had come, to meet his comrade and the fugitive. He had just
ascended one of the many rolling hills, when, in the distance, he
discovered a man riding one horse and driving another. At the sight
his heart almost stood still. He dismounted, and leading his horse
to one side, concealed him in a clump of young pines. Then he
returned to the road-side and waited. The man was urging his horses
forward, but they seemed to be wearied, and made but slow progress.
Crandall felt his heart beat faster and faster at the length of time
it took the man to reach him. He examined his revolver and rifle,
cocking each, to see that they were in order. It seemed to relieve
the tension of his nerves. After he had done this, he knelt down so
that he could fire with surer aim, and waited. He did not care much
now whether the man resisted or not. If the fugitive resisted, he
would have to stand the consequence of resistance. It was nothing to
him. He could hear the footfall of the approaching horses in the
snow, and he cocked his rifle so as to be ready. The setting sun
shone full in the mans face, but Crandall forgot to look for the
scar that the notice had said was on the right cheek, although he
had resolved to do so particularly. When he first discovered the
fugitive, he scanned the road behind him to discover Lansing, but
the nearer the man approached, the less Crandall cared whether
Lansing came or not. He let the man approach nearer and nearer, so
that his aim would be the more accurate. He could not afford to
throw away the first shot. The face of the man grew more and more
distinct. He seemed to be oblivious to his surroundings. Crandall
felt almost disposed to let him pass, but the thought that every one
would think him a coward if he did so, spurred him on, and, rising
erect, he ordered the man to surrender. The horse that the man was
driving in front of him, frightened at Crandalls appearance,
swerved from the road, leaving the two men facing each other. For an
instant, Crandall looked straight into the others eyes. Then the
man raised his rifle from the pommel of the saddle, and Crandall
fired. The horse which the man was riding sprang from the road, and,
at the same moment, its riders gun was discharged. The smoke from
Crandalls own gun blew back into his eyes, and he turned from it to
follow the movements of the man at whom he had fired. As he saw the
man still erect in his saddle, he felt the feverish haste to fire
again come over him that men feel when they have shot and missed,
and know that their life may be the forfeit of their failure. He
threw another cartridge into the chamber of his rifle, and raised it
to his shoulder, but before he could fire, the man reeled from his
saddle and fell, while his frightened horse galloped off through the
pines.

Crandall stepped toward him, holding his rifle prepared to fire
again, if necessary. As he did so, the man raised his hand and said,
simply: Dont fire--youve got me.

The snow was already red with blood where he lay. For the first
time, Crandall looked for the scar that the description said was on
the right cheek. For an instant he did not see it, and his heart
seemed to stop beating with the fear of having made a mistake, and
when, on drawing nearer, he saw that it was there, that only the
pallor which had spread over the mans face had made it indistinct,
he could have cried out with joy at the feeling of relief that
passed over him.

Are you badly wounded? he asked.

I dont know how bad it is. It is here somewhere, the man said,
placing his hand on his breast, as if not certain of the exact spot.
It feels numb-like, he added. Stooping down, Crandall unbuckled
and took off the mans pistol-belt and threw it into the snow, where
lay his rifle, and then he tore open the mans shirt. As he did so
his fingers came in contact with the warm blood, and he
involuntarily drew back, with a feeling of disgust.

Did you find it? asked the man, who was watching him closely, and
who had observed the movement.

Recalled to himself by the question, Crandall again tore at the
shirt, exposing the breast. Where the blood did not cover it, it
looked like marble, despite the dark hair on it. He could not see
the wound, on account of the blood, until he had wiped the latter
from the breast, and then he found it.

What do you think of it? the man asked.

There it is, replied Crandall. He could not say more. The
appealing tone in the mans voice for some hope--some
encouragement--made him feel faint and sick.

What do you think of it? the man repeated, in a querulous voice,
and, as he did so, he coughed until his mouth filled with blood, and
he spat it out on the white snow.

Crandall shook his head and walked toward where his horse was tied.
He felt that if he watched the wounded man any longer he would
faint. Noticing his walking away, the wounded man said: For Gods
sake, dont leave me. Now that you have killed me, stay with me, and
dont let me die like a dog.

The voice was one of entreaty, and Crandall returned and seated
himself in the snow by the mans side. The sun had gone down, and
the twilight had come on, bringing with it the chill of night.
Crandall covered the wounded mans body with his overcoat, and
raised his head from the snow. Almost unconsciously he noted that as
the patch of red made by the blood grew larger and larger, the face
of the wounded man grew whiter and whiter. He never took his eyes
from Crandalls face, while his breath came quicker and shorter, as
if he breathed with labor. With each breath the blood seemed to
bubble from the wound in the breast. One of the mans hands fell
from under the coat that covered him. As Crandall raised it from the
snow, its coldness sent a chill through him. Once he had asked the
wounded man if he could do anything for him; but the man had only
shaken his head in reply. Crandall felt like reviling himself for
what he had done, and wondered why the wounded man did not reproach
him. Even when he expressed his sorrow at having shot him, the dying
man had said, gently: Dont mind it. Its too late now.

The twilight gave way to darkness, and still he sat there. He could
not hear the dying man breathe without leaning over his face. He did
not do this but once, though, and then the dying man had opened his
eyes and looked up into his face, inquiringly. Crandall would rather
have stayed there until morning than to have caught that look again.

Suddenly he heard a voice call to him. He started as if he had been
fired at, but it was only Lansing. As he answered the call, Lansing
rode forward and, seeing the outstretched form on the snow, said:
By God, you got him!

Hush! replied Crandall, fearful lest the wounded man would hear
the exulting tone which grated on his own ears as nothing had ever
before done. But not minding the admonition, Lansing dismounted, and
striking a match held it close to the mans face. It was pale and
cold, and the half-opened eyes were glazed. They did not even
reflect the light made from the match, but from the partly opened
mouth a tiny stream of half-congealed blood seemed to be still
flowing down over the beard.

Thats him, and its a pretty good days work we have done by
earning that reward, said Lansing, coolly, as the match went out.

Somehow, though, as Crandall lay awake through the night, within a
few yards of the body, to keep the wolves from it so that it would
be unmarred in the morning when they would lash it to a horse and
take it into the settlements for identification, he wondered why
Lansing could sleep so soundly. As for himself, the rigid form,
covered with only a saddle-blanket, lying where the snow was red
instead of white, was always before his eyes, even when he closed
them.




CONSCIENCE MONEY

By Geraldine Bonner


In January the darkness settles early in Paris. It was not yet five,
and it was closing in, soft and sudden. This particular night it was
rendered denser by the light rain that was falling--one of those
needle-pointed, noiseless rains that come in the midst of a Paris
winter and persist for days.

Celia Reardon came home through it, letting her skirts flap against
her heels. The package of sketches she had not sold to the dealer on
the Rue Bonaparte was under her arm. From beneath the dark tent of
her umbrella she looked straight before her down the vista of the
street, glistening and winking from its lamps and windows. The
light, striking clearly on her face, revealed it as small, pale, and
plain, with a tight line of lip, and eyes sombrely staring at
nothing. She made no attempt to lift her sodden skirt or avoid
puddles.

Walking heavily forward through the early dusk, she was advancing to
meet the giant Despair.

This was on her mind, and, to the observant eye, in her face. Celia
knew of only one way to evade the approaching giant. It was by the
turn that led to the river. Many people, in their terror at his
approach, took this turn. She had seen them in the morgue in the
days when she was new to Paris, and went about seeing the sights
like a tourist.

After the dealer on the Rue Bonaparte had given her back the
sketches, telling her it was impossible to sell them, she had turned
downward toward the _quais_, and came out there, under the skeleton
trees, where the book-stalls line the wall. The dark, slumberous
current of the river swept by under the gemmed arches of its
bridges. It was carrying away all the foul and useless things of the
days tumultuous life, all going helter-skelter, pell-mell, to the
oblivion of the sea.

She thought of herself going with them, whirling about in the
currents, serenely indifferent to everything that tortured her now.
The thought had a creeping fascination. She drew nearer, staring
down at the water, stabbed with hundreds of quivering lights, and
saw herself--a face, a trail of hair, a few folds of eddying
drapery--go floating by. A sudden gust of wind snatched at her
umbrella, and shook a deluge from the tree boughs, fretting the
surface of the pools. It roused her, and she turned away shuddering.
She would wait and meet the Giant face to face.

As she turned into the _impasse_ where her studio was, she felt that
he was getting very near. The long walk had tired her. Since
yesterday her only food had been the free tea at the Girls Club.
Her door was the last on the left-hand side, and broke the face of
what looked a blank wall. Near it a bell-handle hung on the end of a
wire. On the fourth floor she opened a door that had her card nailed
to it.

The studio was dark, only the large window showed a dim, gray
square. She lit the lamp, and then, suddenly, in the recklessness of
her desperation, the fire. There were eight pieces of wood and six
briquettes in the box. She would burn them all. She would burn the
bed and the chairs, but she would be warm to-night. To-morrow was
twelve hours off.

The light showed the emptiness of the chill, barn-like room. The
walls alone were furnished, decorated with a series of life-class
studies, some made twenty years before, when she had been the star
of one of the Julians. Now these spirited delineations of nakedness,
unlovely and unabashed, offered silent testimony to the brilliant
promise of Celia Reardons youth. To-night she only thought of the
fire and cowered over it--a little, pale shadow of a woman, near
upon middle age.

For hours she sat watching the flames dart up through the holes in
the briquettes. The warmth consoled her. She grew dreamy and
retrospective. Her thoughts went slipping back from point to point,
in the glamourous past, when she had been hung in the Salon, and
sold her pictures, and was an artist people spoke of who would some
day arrive. From those radiant days of youth and hope, things had
been gradually declining to this--one by one stand-bys failing and
her old patrons leaving, rich Americans who ordered copies growing
scarcer and scarcer. Finally no money to hire models, bad food, and,
in consequence, declining health, poor work that failed to find a
market; pride coming to her aid and withdrawing her from the help of
friends; furtive visits to the Mont de Piete, and more dreaded ones
to the dealers on the Rue Bonaparte; and to-night the end of all
things.

It was late when she slept. Waking in the gray dawn she found
herself lying cramped and cold in front of the white ashes of the
fire, and crept shivering to bed. There she slept on till after
midday. She felt weak and stupid when she rose, and her dressing
took a long time. She began to realize that her state was nearly as
bad physically as it was financially.

It was better to walk about the streets till the hour for tea than
to freeze in the studio. She put on her hat and jacket, relics of
better days to which she desperately clung, and went forth. In the
night the thermometer had fallen and the rain had turned to snow.
She buried her chin in her collar and tried to walk briskly. She
thought she would go to the Louvre, which was warm, and sit there
till four, when she could come back to the Girls Club. Both walks
were long, but the hours rest at the Louvre would strengthen her,
and there was still the faint possibility of meeting some one she
knew who would order a copy.

She felt singularly tired when the long flank of Catharine de
Medicis part of the old palace came into view with the river
sucking at the wall. All the surroundings were gray and motionless
like a picture, and in the midst of this dead immobility the swift,
turbulent tide rolled on, a thing of sinister life, calling to her
as it sped. Midway across the bridge she stopped to look down on it,
and then stood gazing, fascinated, unable to tear herself away.

Close to her, on the coping of the wall, an image-seller had set out
his wares. They were a dream of fair women, classic and modern. The
solemn majesty of the great Venus was contrasted with Phryne hiding
her eyes in a spasm of modesty. Clytie, with the perfect fall of her
shoulders, rising from the lily leaves that fold back as if
unwilling to hide so much beauty, stood droopingly beside the proud
nakedness of Falguires Diane. The boy who presided over this
gallery of loveliness--a meagre Italian, his face nipped with
frost--stood a hunched-up, wretched figure, his eyes questioning the
passers-by.

Presently one of these halted in the hurrying march with an eye on
Clytie. The boy drew his hands from his pockets, and with piteous
eagerness held out the bust. The tones of his voice penetrated
Celias dark musings, and she looked that way.

The buyer was a lady, young, and of a curiously soft and silly
prettiness. She displayed all of a Parisiennes flawless finish. Her
cheek, by art or nature, was like a magnolia petal; her hair showed
burnished on its loose ripples. Beneath the edge of her veil her
uncovered mouth appeared, fresh as a childs, serious, and
charmingly foolish. Her chin rested on a fluff of white tulle and
was a white of a warmer tint. There was dubious debate in her glance
as it paused on the figures. She looked the incarnation of sweet
indecision. Presently she decided on Clytie, and said she would take
it with her. Celia knew she had bought the head from a sudden,
careless pity for the boys red nose and chilblains. If _she_ had
peddled sketches on the bridge, with her nose red and her toes
coming through her boots, she, too, would have made money, she
thought, as she hungrily wondered how much the boy had made by his
sale.

The lady unclasped the little bag that hung by a chain to her wrist,
and searched for money. She was evidently careless, and carried many
things therein. Suddenly she jerked out a whisp of
pocket-handkerchief, and under it found the _cache_ where the money
had been secreted. She bent her face to search for the desired coin,
and so did not see that with the handkerchief a five-franc piece had
been twitched out.

Celia did see. She saw it spring out, and then drop into a bank of
snow, noiselessly, as if purposely to avoid detection. She made a
step forward to pick it up and return it. And then she stopped--a
thought went through her like a zigzag of lightning. Cupidity, born
of hunger, burst into life in her, and nailed her to the spot, her
mouth dry, her eyes vacant of expression. For the first time in her
life Temptation gripped her.

The traditions of generations of seemly New England forbears cried
out upon her and struggled within her. But she stood her ground. The
coin lying in the snow seemed of more importance to her than
everything else in the world.

As the lady passed away, Celia drew near the images. The boy was
rearranging them. When his back was turned she bent down and groped
in the snow. Then rose with her face red.

She crushed down the shame that surged in her, and turned to leave
the bridge. There is a Duval on the Boulevard St. Germain, and she
almost ran to it, thinking as she went of what she would order. She
would spend two francs and a half, allowing a twenty-five centime
_pourboire_ for the girl.

It was not the crowded hour, and she had no need to hurry. She ate
sumptuously and slowly, and began to feel the revivifying tide of
life flowing back into her starved body. The Giant began to look dim
and distant. The river called no more. In the leisurely French
fashion she sat a long time over her meal. The day was darkening to
its early twilight as she emerged and fared down the boulevard.

She was walking slowly down the great street, her body warmed, the
cries of her hunger stilled, when the enormity of her act began to
force itself upon her. She refused to acknowledge it at first.
Hunger was sufficient excuse. But not so much her conscience as her
sense of dainty self-respect insisted on her shame. She was a thief.
Her whiteness was stained forever. She had never before done
anything for which to blush or to lie. Her poverty, her
discouragement, her pitiful, proud struggles, had always been
honest. She would as soon have thought of murdering some one as of
stealing from them.

Now she had done it. One moments temptation had marked her forever.
As the money had fallen into the snow something in her had fallen,
never to rise.

Pursued by harassing thoughts, she half-unconsciously wended her way
toward the river. Here, unencumbered by houses, daylight still
lingered. The gray afternoon was dying with a frosty brilliance. In
its death throes it exhaled a sudden, angry red which broke through
the clouds in smoldering radiance. Its flush tinted the sky and
touched the tops of the wavelets, and Celia felt it on her face like
the color of shame.

As she stood staring at it, her pallor glazed with an unnatural
blush, an inspiration came to her which sent a tide of real color
into her face. A manner of redeeming herself suddenly was revealed
to her. She would give the rest of the money to the most needy
person she met that evening. She would walk the city till she found
some one more deserving of it than she. Then she would give all she
had--share her theft with some other pauper to whom two francs would
mean salvation.

She felt instantly stimulated and revived by a return of
self-respect. Either side of the river would be rich in case of
heartbreak and hunger. Standing in the middle of the bridge, she
looked from the straight line of gray houses on the Quai Voltaire to
the vast faade of the Louvre. Then some whim impelled her to choose
the side of the city where wealth dwells, and she walked forward
toward the _guichets_ of the old palace.

The city had on the first phase of its evening aspect of brilliantly
illumined gayety. People were dining; she caught glimpses of them
over the half-curtains of restaurant windows. Women in voluminous
wraps were making mincing exits from the hotel doorways to waiting
fiacres. There was the _frou-frou_ of skirts, whiffs of perfumery,
the shifting of many feet under the arcades of the Rue de Rivoli.

Passing the entrance of one of the largest hotels, she was arrested
by a familiar voice, and a richly clad and rustling lady deflected
her course from the carriage that awaited her at the curb toward the
astonished artist. Celia felt a curious sensation of fatefulness
when she saw in the face before her that of an old patron, long
absent from Paris. The lady gave her a warm greeting; she wanted to
see her to-morrow, apropos of some copies to be made. Had Celia time
to make the copies? Well, then, would she come to lunch to-morrow
and talk it over?

The little artist blinked in the glare of the doorway and the ladys
diamonds. She would.

And now would she go to the theatre with the lady? Only her niece
was with her, and they had a box.

No--Celia could not do that. She had--er--business--business that
might keep her up very late.

The carriage rolled away with the lady and the niece, and Celia
turned up one of the side streets that lead to the great boulevard.
So Fortune was going to smile on her once more. All the more reason
to square things with her conscience. She grasped her purse tightly
and looked about her as she passed up the narrow thoroughfare.
Misery often lurked ashamed in corners. She knew just how and why.

A few moments more walking, with an occasional turn into cross-cuts,
brought her into the spacious widening of the ways before the Gare
St. Lazare. It was particularly lively inside the depot inclosure,
as the boat train for Calais was soon to leave. There was an
incessant rattling of carriages piled high with trunks, and a great
disgorging of travelers, who ran staggering up the steps weighted
with the amazing amount of hand luggage indispensable to the
Continental tourist.

Certainly it did not look a promising place in which to seek
distressed humanity. Celia turned away and began to walk upward
toward the street which flanks the building on the left, and winds
an ascending course toward Montmartre. It was badly lit, sheltered
by the vast blank wall of the depot, and showed only an occasional
passer-by, and the lamps of a long line of waiting fiacres.

As she advanced into the semi-obscurity of this dark byway, a
carriage rattled up and stopped precipitately near the side entrance
into the yard. A man sprang out and then turned with a sort of
elaboration of gallantry and helped out a woman. Celia idly noted
her trim foot as it felt for the step, her darkly clad, elegant
figure, then her face. It came with a shock of familiarity on its
smooth, rounded prettiness; now, however, no longer placid, but
deeply disturbed. Under it unwonted currents of feeling were
corrugating the brow and making the lips droop. Only an eye used to
note faces would have recognized it as that of the woman who had
bought the head of Clytie a few hours before.

Celia loitered, and then drew back into the shadow of the wall. The
woman was evidently in the grip of mental distress. Apprehension,
indecision, terror almost, were stamped on her mobile and childish
countenance. The man stretched his hand inside the carriage and
pulled out two valises. He spoke to her, shortly but with slightly
veiled tenderness, and with a start like a frightened animal she
drew back into the shadow. He paid the driver, and then, standing
between the bags, he drew out his pocket-book and gave her some
murmured instructions.

She suddenly interrupted him in a louder key.

I have my ticket, she said, I bought it this afternoon. I passed
Cooks, and went in and bought it.

You bought it yourself? giving her a fatuously loving look from
under his hat-brim, you were afraid we would perhaps be late? Dear
one, how thoughtful!

I dont know what I thought. Oh, yes, I do. I thought if I went in
to buy it here with you I might see some one I knew. That would be
so dreadful.

Of course, you must not go in with me. You must wait here. Keep
back in the shadow there while Im gone.

Here--take it--Oh, Im so nervous! Take it, and get yours, and then
come back.

She feverishly clawed off the little bag she wore on her wrist, and
thrust it into his hand. Though less obviously so, the man was also
nervous. He clutched up his valises, and put them down; then glanced
uneasily up and down the streets dim length.

Ill go alone and buy mine, he said, and put the bags in the
compartment. Ill be gone a few moments. You wait here, and dont
move till I come for you.

Oh, of course, not. I shouldnt dare. And please hurry. I dont see
how I will ever be able to get in. At any moment I might meet some
one I know. Think of what that would be! I had no idea this was
going to be so terrible. Its not easy to do wrong.

Do wrong? echoed the man, in a tone of tender, though somewhat
hurried, reproof. Dont say such foolish things. We have a right to
happiness. Oh--er--havent you got a veil you could put on when you
enter the Gare? It would be better.

A bell rang within the building, and the woman gave a suppressed
shriek.

Oh, go--go! she cried wildly. Dont stop to talk now. That may be
the train. What would happen if we missed it?

The bell struck him into action, too, and he hurried off, swaying
between the two heavy valises.

Celia, from her station near the wall, was too smitten by the sudden
revelation before her to have will to move. So she was eloping, this
baby-cheeked creature, whose kindly impulse had prompted her to buy
the Clytie from the frost-nipped boy on the bridge. Without any
natural predisposition in that direction, she was going the way of
the Devil, and even at this stage stood aghast, bemused, and
terrified at what she had done.

The Frenchwoman moved forward into the light, and stood for a moment
watching her departing lover. Then she began to send fearful glances
up and down the street. Celia thought she could hear her breathing,
and the thumping of her heart. It was not hard to see how she had
been cajoled and overruled.

Suddenly, from the fullness of her heart her mouth spoke: Oh, I
want to go home. She spoke aloud, making at the same moment a
gesture of clasping her hands. Her face took on an expression as
near to resolution as possible. Its flower-soft curves stiffened.
Her lover was gone, and her hypnotized will was struggling to life.

She turned desperately toward the line of carriages and beckoned to
the _cocher_ of the nearest one, then dropped the raised hand to her
wrist, where the bag had hung. It encountered nothing, and in a
moment she remembered that her purse was with the man.

Good God! she said, and this time the violent Gallic ejaculation
sounded appropriate.

As the carriage rattled up, Celia came out of the shadow. She spoke
excellent French, and the Parisienne might have thought her a
fellow-countrywoman. What is the matter? she said, quietly. Do
you feel sick?

No--no--but my money is gone. I gave my purse to my friend, and now
I want to go back.

But hell be here again in a minute.

Thats just it--in a minute. And I must go before he comes back,
and I have no money.

You can always pay the _cocher_ at the house.

Not now--not to-night.

She was far past a regard for the ordinary reticences of every-day
life, but the humiliation of her admission was in her face. My
husband--hes there, with only one old servant. He thinks Im in the
country with my mother. So I was till this afternoon. If I come home
unexpectedly with no money to pay the _cocher_, he will be
surprised. He will be angry. He will want to know all about it--I
cant explain it or tell more lies. I was mad when I said Id go. I
didnt realize--Oh, good heavens! with a sudden burst of agonized
incoherence, here he is! Hes coming and that will be the end of
me.

Celia turned. Against the bright background of the depot entrance
she saw the Frenchmans thick-set figure coming rapidly down the
steps. He had got rid of the valises, and was almost running.

Quick, she said, and turning to the waiting carriage wrenched open
the door.

Get in, she commanded. The terrified creature did so. She was
ready to be dominated by any imperious will. Celia stretched her arm
through the window, and into the little gloved hand pressed the
two-franc piece, then cried:

You can tell the _cocher_ the address when you get started. Dont
stop him till you get some way off. Go, she cried to the man, down
by the Rue Auber--dont waste a minute. Fly!

The _cocher_ flicked his horse with the whip, and it started. At the
window a pale face appeared, and Celia heard the cry: But your
name, your address? I must send the money back.

Never mind that, cried Celia, it isnt mine. Its conscience
money.

The fiacre rolled down the street, and, plunging into the mle of
vehicles, wound its way through the press to the Rue Auber. A man
standing on the sidewalk drew the stares of the passers-by as he
gazed blankly this way and that. A woman quietly picked her way
across the _carrefour_, toward the station where one takes the
Vaugirard omnibus.




THE JACK-POT

By Charles Dwight Willard


There were five of us in the party--six, counting Long Tom, the
guide. After two days hard climbing, which the _burros_ endured
with exemplary fortitude, we arrived at the little valley high up in
the mountains, through which threaded the trout-stream.

Jest you all go over into the cabin there and make yourself
comfble, while I tend to gettin this stuff unpacked, said Long
Tom; there aint no one there. My pardner, hes down below.

The cabin appears to be two cabins, said the colonel, as we
approached it.

That is for economy in ridge-poles, said the doctor; sleeping
apartments on one side and kitchen on the other. In the space
between, you keep your fishing-tackle and worms.

We entered the right-hand section of the twin cabin, which proved to
be the kitchen side. There was not much furniture--a table of hewn
logs, a chair of bent saplings, and a rough bench.

However, we did not notice such furniture as there was, for each
member of the party, as he stepped over the high threshold, had his
attention instantly attracted by the stove, and a brief roundelay of
ejaculations went along the group.

Well, that staggers me, said the stock-broker.

Hm, said the professor, in a mysterious tone, and rubbed his
chin.

The stove was a plain, small cooking-range, rather old and rusty.
The strange thing about it was its position. Its abbreviated legs
stood upon large cedar posts, which were planted in the floor and
were over four feet in height. This brought the stove away up in
mid-air, so that the top was about on a level with the face of the
colonel, and he was a six-footer.

We formed in a circle about the stove and stared at it as solemnly
as a group of priests around a sacrificial tripod. We felt of the
posts--they were firm and solid, showing that the mysterious
arrangement was a permanent, not a temporary, one. Then we all bent
our necks and opened our mouths to look up at the hole in the roof,
through which the stove-pipe vanished.

Suddenly the stock-broker burst out into a laugh.

Oh, I understand it now, said he.

Understand what? asked the colonel, sharply.

Why Long Tom has his stove hoisted up so high from the floor.

So do I, said the doctor; but I suspect that my explanation is
not the same that any one else would offer.

Well, I will bet that I am right, said the stock-broker, and put
up the money.

I am in this, said the judge; I have a clear idea about that
stove and will back it.

Make it a jack-pot, said the colonel; I want to take a hand.

The stock-broker drew a small yellow coin out of his pocket and
dropped it on the table.

He has the stove up there, he said, to get a better draught. In
this rarefied mountain air there is only a small amount of oxygen to
the cubic inch, and combustion is more difficult to secure than in
the lower latitudes. I have heard that if you get high enough up,
you cant cook an egg--that is, I mean, water wont boil--or
something like that, he continued, thrown into sudden confusion by
the discovery that the professors eye was fixed upon him with a
sarcastic gaze.

Is that supposed to be science? demanded the professor.

Well, said the stock-broker, doggedly, never mind the reasons.
Experience is probably good enough for Long Tom. He finds that he
gets a better draught for his stove by having it up in mid-air, so
he has it there.

The right explanation, began the professor, is the simplest. My
idea is that----

Excuse me, interrupted the stock-broker, tapping the table; are
you in this pot?

The professor made a deposit, and proceeded:

Have you noticed that our host is a very tall man? Like most men of
his height, he hates to bend over. If the stove were near the floor,
he would have to stoop down low when he whirled a flap-jack or
speared a rasher of bacon. Now he can stand up and do it with ease.
Your draught theory is no good; the longer the pipe, if it is
straight, the better the fire will burn.

Professor, remarked the colonel, I regret to have to tell you
that your money is gone. Long Tom told me, on the way up, that his
partner did all the cooking, and he is a man of rather short
stature. The colonel then paid his compliments to the jack-pot, and
continued: Now, my idea is that the stove heats the room better
there than on the floor. It is only a cooking-stove, to be sure, but
when the winter is cold it makes this room comfortable. Being up in
the middle of the space, it heats it all equally well, which it
could not do if it were down below.

The doctor greeted this theory with a loud laugh. Colonel, he
said, you are wild--way off the mark. Hot air rises, of course, and
the only way to disseminate it is to have your stove as low as
possible. According to your idea, it would be a good plan to put the
furnace in the attic of a house instead of in the basement.

I think, said the colonel, that I could appreciate your argument
better if you would ante.

The pot is mine, said the doctor, as he deposited his coin; you
will all adopt my idea the moment you hear it, and Long Tom, who
will be here in a minute, will bear me out. This room is very small;
it has but little floor-space, and none of it goes to waste. Now, if
he had put the stove down where we expected to find it, Long Tom
could not have made use of the area underneath, as you see he has
done. On all sides of the supporting posts, you will notice there
are hooks, on which he hangs his pans and skillets. Underneath,
there is a kitchen-closet for pots and cooking-utensils of various
sorts. What could be more convenient? Under your ordinary stove
there is room only for a poker and a few cockroaches.

The judge, who had been listening to the opinions offered by the
others with the same grim smile that occasionally ornamented his
face when he announced that an objection was overruled, now stepped
forward and dropped a coin on the table. He then rendered his
decision as follows:

It appears that none of you have noticed the forest of hooks in the
roof just over the stove. They are not in use at present, but they
are there for some purpose. I imagine that during the winter huge
pieces of venison and bears-meat dangle over the stove, and are
dried for use later. Now, if the stove were on the floor, it would
be too far from the roof to be of service in this way.

Here comes old Tom, shouted the colonel, who had stepped to the
open door while the judge was speaking.

The old trapper put down the various articles of baggage with which
his arms were loaded and came into the kitchen-cabin where we all
stood. He glanced at the group and then at the stilted stove in our
midst.

I see you air all admirin my stove, said he, and Ill bet youve
been a-wonderin why it is up so high.

Yes, we have, said the professor; how did you know it?

People most allus generally jest as soon as they come into the
place begin to ask me about it--thats how I knowed.

Well, why is it up so high? demanded the stock-broker impatiently,
with a side glance at the well-developed jack-pot on the table.

The reasons simple enough, said Long Tom, with a grin that showed
his bicuspids; you see we had to pack all this stuff up here from
down below on _burros_. Originally there was four jints of that
stove-pipe, but the cinch wasnt drawed tight enough on the _burro_
that was carryinem, and two ofem slipped out and rolled down the
mountain. When we got here and found that there wasnt but two
pieces left, I reckoned that I would have to kinder hist the stove
to make it fit the pipe--so I jest in an histed her. And thar she
is yet. Say, whats all this here money on the table for?

There was a deep silence which lasted so long that Tom ventured to
repeat his question about the money.

It is a jack-pot, said the doctor, sadly, and as near as I can
make out, it belongs to you.




THE SEATS OF JUDGMENT

By C. W. Doyle


                              I.
        That Two Eyes are Better than One in the Dark.


Thou hast the writings of Le Toy, Wau Shun? asked Sam Lee of his
brother-highbinder, as the latter issued from the receiving hospital
of San Francisco.

Verily, or thou hadst heard my dogs bark within, replied Wau Shun.

And Lee Toy?

Lee Toy died babbling of wings, and of the white babe whose life he
saved from fire this day at the price of his own, and whose father
stood beside him weeping like a woman.

Was ever the like seen before! exclaimed Sam Lee. That Lee Toy,
the bravest of the brave, the keenest hatchet of our tong, should
fail his brethren, and break his oaths, and worship the white babe
whose abduction he had undertaken--and that the babes father should
weep for one of our people!

Ay, and, what is of more importance, that Lee Toy should have given
me the writings that would have hanged us, who compassed his
passing! Eh, Sam Lee?

Yea, Wau Shun; and compassed also the hanging of Quong Lung--nay,
turn not so suddenly in a narrow lane, my brother, for I have but
one eye, as thou knowest, and that can not abide swift movement in
the dark on the part of a man whose life is forfeit; and Sam Lee
drew a darkling revolver from his blouse.

With a deft movement, Wau Shun, who had the advantage of two
eyes--though they looked in different directions and were hard to
meet--threw Sam Lees hand up, and snatched the pistol from him.

Twere easy to slay thee now, Sam Lee; and twere profitable,
too--if only Quong Lung were out of the way.

Ay, if Quong Lung were only out of the way; but Quong Lung lives
and waxes fat, and Wau Shun is his slave!

No more was said. They turned into a narrow alley near the top of
Jackson Street, Wau Shun walking in the rear. As soon as they had
entered the shadow produced by the narrowness of the lane and by its
angle to the lighted main street, there was a sharp report, and Sam
Lee fell on his face, and coughed like one who is stricken through
the lungs.

The swarms that inhabit Chinatown began to buzz. In a few minutes
the alley was crowded with curious coolies jabbering excitedly, and
in the fifth or sixth row of those who stood round Sam Lee was Wau
Shun, watching the blood that welled from the mouth of the dying man
and prevented speech.

After Wau Shun had seen the corpse of his brother-highbinder laid
out on a slab at the morgue, he treated himself to a couple of
jorums of hot-Scotch, and sought his den in Cum Cook Alley.

Lighting a dim candle, he proceeded to barricade himself, and to
conceal his light, by means of a coverlet that was held in its
place, on his side of the door, by iron bars that crossed and
recrossed each other.

When all was snug, he drew from an inner pocket the roll of papers
given to him by Lee Toy, which set forth the names of the several
highbinders who belonged to his tong, the various loppings
accomplished by their hatchets, and, in a special supplement, the
instigations to certain notorious crimes by their master-mind, Quong
Lung.

Lighting a brazier, he tore out his own record from the writing, and
committed it to the flames. But that which related to Quong Lung he
placed in a receptacle cunningly concealed in the threshold of the
door.

Then, extinguishing his light, he sallied forth with the rest of Lee
Toys confessions in his pocket, to speak with Quong Lung, who had
awaited him these many hours with patience--and wrath.


                               II.
                     The Lesser Discipline.


The dawn of Christmas Day was rosy when Wau Shun reached Quong
Lungs store. The bells throughout the city of San Francisco were
once more frantically announcing the birth of the Babe of Bethlehem,
as Wau Shun gave the signal of The Brethren on Quong Lungs
electric bell. It was answered by a deep voice that came through a
speaking-tube, the end of which was so cleverly hidden that none but
the initiated could find it: Peace attend thy feet! What brother
needs succor?

Thy servant, Wau Shun.

Enter, Wau Shun, and the door was opened by some mechanical
contrivance, and closed, as soon as Wau Shun had crossed the
threshold, with a snap suggestive of a steel trap. Pressing a
concealed button, Wau Shun lit an incandescent lamp that showed him
how to avoid the thread, the breaking of which would have
precipitated a hundred-weight of iron on the head of an intruder. At
the end of the passage thus illuminated was a door, to which he
applied his pass-key and entered an apartment that was a reflex of
its occupant, in whom East and West were met. The room was decorated
and furnished in accordance with the tastes of a Chinese gentleman
of high culture; but the illumination was supplied by electricity,
and a long-distance telephone, of the latest pattern, stood at the
elbow of the stout, spectacled Chinese merchant, who sat on a great
ebony chair, gravely smoking a cigar.

This was Quong Lung, the famous head of the high-binders of the See
Yups--the most powerful tong in San Francisco--and who owed his
bad preminence to the fact that he was absolutely unscrupulous,
using even his devoted friends as stepping-stones to his ambitions.
Then, too, he was a Native Son of the Golden West, and used the
idioms and swore with the ease of a born Californian. He had
friends--old school-fellows and college chums--among the executive
of San Francisco, and, by means of his more intimate knowledge of
what was happening, he was enabled to humiliate his rivals and
punish his enemies.

Thou hast done well, Wau Shun, he began, and deservest well--but
dry tongues can not speak.

Pouring out some whisky for himself, he pushed the bottle across to
Wau Shun, who had now seated himself on the other side of the table.

Thy servant is enriched by thy approbation, Most Powerful, replied
Wau Shun, draining his glass after Quong Lung had drunk.

The passing of Lee Toy by way of fire was excellently done, Wau
Shun--most excellently done. And where is Sam Lee?

He is aweary and sleepeth, Great Master, answered Wau Shun, whose
squinting was suddenly accentuated.

May his sleep refresh him! But the end of Lee Toy, as I have
already said, was surpassingly excellent, Wau Shun. I learnt by
this--and Quong Lung pointed with his cigar to the telephone--I
learnt by this of the firing of the house of the white devil, whose
babe Lee Toy guarded, and how Lee Toy died to save the devilkin.

Ho, ho, ho! interrupted Wau Shun, chuckling softly, and helping
himself again from the bottle.

And the writings of Lee Toy? asked Quong Lung, after a while.

Without a word Wau Shun laid a packet on the table.

But these pertain to Sam Lee only, exclaimed Quong Lung, after he
had examined the roll of papers; and his nostrils dilated slightly.
Thou hast, doubtless, others that relate to thee and to me.

Now, nay, All-Seeing; the packet is as Lee Toy gave it to me--so
Sam Lee will tell thee.

If the dead may speak, said Quong Lung, deliberately.

The other turned toward him with amazement and horror in his looks.
It was admirably done, but it did not even attract the attention of
Quong Lung, who quietly flicked the ash from his cigar, and went on:
And thou wast seen by two of our brethren in the crowd that
witnessed the end of Sam Lee; and twere easy, too, to find
witnesses who saw thee slay Sam Lee. Then, after a pause, he went
on: Moreover, only fools tell lies to such as me. None may sit on
that chair and lie to me--only lift not thy voice at the proof of
it, lest death come to thee suddenly!

The next moment the horror-stricken highbinder was writhing under
the spell of an electric current, strong enough to prevent him from
relaxing his hold on the arms of his chair, which he had grasped as
he tried to spring to his feet.

After Quong Lung had disarmed his victim, he said: Thou wilt be
here two days hence, and at the same hour, with the other writings
of Lee Toy! Two of thy brethren await thee on the street, and will
see to thy punctuality. Drink once more, Wau Shun, thou hast need.
Ho, ho!


                            III.
               Sweet Counsel and Black Smoke.


Roast turkey, cranberry sauce, mince pies, plum pudding,
cheese-straws, a choice between beer and champagne! Well, Quong
Lung, and what do you want of me, you prince of plotters?

The speaker had all the outward and visible signs of one who was a
slave to opium; but under the influence of Quong Lungs Christmas
dinner his eyes sparkled and his spirits rose to a high pitch.

Nothing, nothing, Jim--at least nothing to speak of; and we wont
speak of it until we have had a small black coffee, and--a small
black pipe. By the way, he went on, Miss Ah Moy and Miss Shun Sen
will come in presently with the coffee and pipes.

Quong Lungs guest, James Ray, was lank, and sallow, and of
uncertain age, because of his terrible vice, and his hair was
prematurely gray. He had been an electrical engineer of high promise
until he became an opium-fiend. Even his clothes betrayed his
failing, no less than his scanty and feeble beard and mustache and
his leaden complexion. He had attended the same Eastern college as
Quong Lung, and had imbued the latter with a taste for Shakespeare
and Byron and the Psalms of David; together they had graduated from
Yale; and then Quong Lung, recognizing the ability of his friend and
the possibilities of electricity in the career of a highbinder, had
introduced Ray to the fascination of opium-smoking; and so--through
the uses of adversity--he held the latter in pawn for his own
nefarious ends.

Why all this magnificence, Quong Lung? inquired Ray, after Ah Moy
and her colleague had brought in the coffee and the implements
pertaining to black smoke. You have but to say the word, old man,
and, like Ariel, Ill put a girdle round the earth in forty
minutes.

Now the hiring of Ah Moy and Shun Sen to twang their _samyens_ for
the delectation of white devils, and hand them coffee and sing to
them, came high, for the damsels were famous in their way and in
great demand.

This is too small a thing for you to notice, Jim, replied Quong
Lung; nothing is too good for my friend.

Why didnt you add, the earth is my lords and the fullness
thereof, and crush me with your compliments? As though I were a
damned coolie!

There was some petulance in Rays voice, as he gave way to the
feeble irritability that attends the constant use of narcotics and
stimulants by all except Orientals. He rose to his elbow from the
mat on which he was smoking, and threw the pipe on its tray, like a
spoiled child. But Quong Lung took no notice of the little outbreak,
and Ah Moy put the pipe to his lips with her own fair hands and soon
coaxed him into complacency. When a look of contentment had once
more settled on his face, Ray said, deprecatingly: It was the
dope that spoke, Quong Lung, and not I; forgive me, old man! And
now, what do you want?

Quong Lung motioned to the girls to withdraw, and when he was alone
with Ray he said: Jim, I shall hang unless you help me.

You must be in a bad fix, indeed, Quong Lung, if you depend on my
small arts to help you. Explain.

Certain papers implicating me are in the possession of one of my
blood-hounds, who has shown himself recalcitrant and ungrateful--the
damned dog! By means of the battery yonder, which you rigged up for
me, I frightened the brute considerably this morning, and he will be
here again two nights hence with such of the papers as his fears may
compel him to part with; but if his courage should revive, as it
may, and if he should come without the documents, I want to put him
under the stress of telling me where they are to be found, and then
I desire that he should never speak again!

Quong Lung darted a look full of dangerous meaning at Ray.

Why dont you employ your regular bull-dogs to attend to this
unpleasant affair, Quong Lung?

Because their methods are coarse and their weapons clumsy.

But it is deuced risky to be an accessory before the fact in a
murder case, my friend.

No, no, Jim, not murder! Call it, rather, the sudden death of an
unknown coolie, from unknown causes.

And the consideration for me?

Two hundred dollars now, said Quong Lung, laying a pile of notes
on the platform on which they were smoking, and two hundred more
after the thing is over.

And if I refuse?

Quong Lung shrugged his shoulders, and said, in an indifferent tone
of voice: Life without opium, and without means of obtaining it,
were hell, as you know. Besides, so many accidents are constantly
happening in Chinatown.

Very well, replied the other, rising languidly to his feet and
thrusting the notes into his pocket; very well. You must let me
have entire possession of this room for the next two days, and
provide such assistance and implements as I may require.

As he was leaving the room he stopped to smell a tuberose that stood
on a bamboo flower-stand. The passing act seemed to give him an
idea, for he turned suddenly to Quong Lung, saying: See to it,
Quong Lung, that you provide plenty of punk-sticks for the eventful
night. You will need them, I am thinking. And be good to this green
brother, pointing to the tuberose.


                              IV.
                Concerning Cherries and Tuberoses.


An hour before the time set for the arrival of Wau Shun, Ray called
Quong Lung into the room wherein he had labored almost incessantly
during the past two days.

Alls done, he said, save only the payment of my dues.

Proceed, returned Quong Lung, laying ten double eagles on the
table and seating himself on his favorite ebony chair.

Ray eyed him curiously while he pocketed the money, and the
Chinaman, who seemed to notice everything, rose quickly from the
chair and said, with a smile:

    How oft the sight of means to do ill deeds,
    Makes ill deeds done!

Eh Jim? Now show me your trick.

Should somebody you dislike sit on the chair you have just left,
Quong Lung, pressure on this button--pointing to an
innocent-looking cherry painted on a panel that hung on the
wall--would connect the chair with the electric-light wires that
pass over your house, and make your objectionable guest the
recipient of--say, three thousand volts.

And then?

And then--slightly altering the words of your favorite poet, to
describe the result--his heart would once heave, and forever stand
still; and nobody would know how your highbinder died.

As Ray left the room, he was again attracted to the tuberose. After
smelling it, he turned round and called to Quong Lung, saying: But
you will not leave this innocent in the room, Quong Lung; its odor
would be ruined by the punks you will burn, and by other savors.

Then gravely saluting Quong Lung, James Ray left the Chinamans
house, and made his way to the office of the chief of police of San
Francisco, for even a dope-fiend has a fragmentary conscience.


                              V.
                    The Greater Discipline.


While Ray told his story to the chief of police, with all the
circumstances and detail that would exonerate him and implicate
Quong Lung, the latter met Wau Shun at his outer door, and, holding
him by the hand, escorted him to his chamber, which was dim with the
smoke of many burning punks, the odor of which filled the air.

Those who are true to me, Wau Shun, will always find that my ways
are ways of pleasantness, and all my paths are peace, said Quong
Lung, softly, misquoting the Psalmist.

Thy house, Far Reacher, is the well-known dwelling of pleasantness
and peace.

When Quong Lung would have seated Wau Shun on the chair of which the
highbinder had such a lively recollection, the coolie shook his
head, saying: Nay, who is thy slave that he should sit in the
presence of the Most Powerful. The ground thou treadest is good
enough for him. And Wau Shun squatted on the floor before his
chief.

There is no harm in the chair, Wau Shun, said Quong Lung, seating
himself on it carelessly, no harm unless, indeed, the sitter tells
lies or have deceit in his heart. Then, after a pause, he went on:
The writings of Lee Toy--thou hast brought them?

Of a surety, replied Wau Shun, producing a packet of papers from
his blouse.

After Quong Lung had looked through them, and satisfied himself that
they were authentic and complete, he said: Wau Shun, the white
devils say that virtue is its own reward; but that would be poor
reward for such virtuous actions as thine. Thou shalt drink with me
first, and then expound to me how I may lighten the burden of
obligations thou hast laid on me.

He went to the table, and pouring out two glasses of spirits, he
advanced with them on a tray to the squatting coolie.

After they had drunk, Quong Lung resumed his seat, and lighting a
cigar, he said: It is not meet that he who hath saved my life this
day should crouch on the ground like a dog. Let Wau Shun take my own
particular chair, whereon none have sat save those I would
honor--nay, I insist; and Quong Lung pointed to the great chair of
ebony, broad enough to accommodate two men such as himself. It was
adorned with a shield of bronze, richly carved and inlaid, that
formed its back; and it stood on a dais of burnished copper, and
might have been the throne of an Oriental potentate; and behind it
was a mirror which reflected the exquisite carving on its back.

When Wau Shun, after much protestation, had ensconced himself in a
corner of the great chair, Quong Lung once more filled the glasses,
and again they drank in silence.

And now, Wau Shun, though I can not weigh my gold against thy
services to me, yet, I pray thee, name some reward that will not put
me to shame to bestow on thee.

Will the payment of fifty dollars afflict thee, my lord?

Nay, Wau Shun, that is the due of but a part of thy merits--the
slaying of Sam Lee, for instance. Here is more for thy other many
good deeds, and Quong Lung tossed on the table a heavy bag that
chinked opulently. Moreover, he continued, now that Lee Toy, our
keenest hatchet, is dead, some worthy successor to him must be
found, and who so worthy as Wau Shun, the slayer of the uncommon
slain, Lee Toy?

Further, Instigator, interrupted Wau Shun, squinting atrociously,
for the liquor had begun to mount to his head; further, it seems to
me that if anything happened to thee--which God forbid!--_I_ might
be found worthy to sit in this thy chair by reason of thy
recommendation, and--my worthiness.

Of course, of course, said Quong Lung, looking at the point of his
cigar and crossing his knees. The See Yups have need of strong men,
and who so strong as Wau Shun! Drink once more to thy worthiness.

After they had disposed of the liquor and smoked awhile, Wau Shun
said, familiarly and half-insolently: Quong Lung, thou owest me
reparation for thy insults of two nights ago; and seeing thou art
seated on the chair of humiliation (here Wau Shun lapsed into
impudent vernacular), you must needs do as I say or be twisted out
of shape.

What! exclaimed Quong Lung, putting one hand carelessly behind his
head and resting the other against the adjacent wall, whereon was a
painted panel that glowed with cherries--what! wouldst thou plague
me?

Nay, but I would discipline you, said Wau Shun, thickly; I would
discipline you with cramps, if need were.

And cramps only? asked Quong Lung, toying with the flower-painted
panel. Twere dangerous to play with me so lightly. Cramps can not
touch me and are for fools alone.

Then I would kill you otherwise, smooth, fat hog!

Have at thee, Wau Shun! exclaimed Quong Lung, fiercely, pressing
the fatal cherry; and Wau Shun, sitting in the corner of the
gorgeous chair, stiffened into a frightful attitude, and then began
writhing dreadfully. To the heavy, punk-laden atmosphere of the room
was added an odor of burning flesh.

Quong Lung rose from his seat and crossed the room to where his
victim was being electrocuted. Ho, ho, ho! he laughed softly;
excellent Jim, most excellent Jim!

As he watched the grim murder enacting before him, he saw, reflected
in the mirror behind the chair of doom, the door that led into the
room slowly open, and James Ray and a detective well known to Quong
Lung entered swiftly.

Throw up your hands, Quong Lung! commanded the officer, as he
covered the Chinaman with his pistol.

Taken in the midst of his crime, Quong Lung started and, backing
against the fatal chair, he fell on the seat beside his victim, with
a yell, as the tremendous current shot through him, killing him
instantly.

Turn off the current, Ray. For Gods sake, be quick! shouted the
officer, as the bodies writhed and twisted on the chair of death.

Yes, yes, came the leisurely reply, as Ray took the tuberose from
the flower-stand; there will be plenty of time after I have removed
this sweet tenderling from this horrible atmosphere.




A DOUBLE SHOT

By Stewart Edward White


Pat McCann came up from the plains into the hills in a bad humor
with himself and the world. He had tried to be a cow-puncher and had
been promptly bucked off; he had tackled the cooking problem and
only escaped mobbing by resigning his job; now he had dragged his
little, squab form, with its hanging arms, up into the hills to try
mining. He applied to the first camp he came to. King, the foreman,
gave him a job.

Early the next morning he and another man walked down the gulch
through the sarvis bushes for half a mile, turned abruptly to the
right, climbed the uneven length of a zigzag trail, and at last
halted near the top of a ridge. The pine trees, slim and tall, grew
out of the unevenly carpeted ground, through which cropped irregular
slices of a red-brown, crumbling rock. At the very crest was a
dark-gray dike of quartzite, standing up steep and castellated for
a height of thirty feet or more. This was the hanging wall of the
prospective mine. Down through the trees were glimpses of vast,
breathless descents to other ridges and other pines far below. Over
the dike was nothing but the blue sky.

The two men had stopped within a hundred feet of the top. The old
hand went over to a rough lean-to of small trees covering a rude
forge, from beneath which he drew several steel drills of various
lengths and a sledge-hammer, which he carried to a scar in the face
of a huge outcropping rock. After dumping these he returned and got
a can of water and a long T-shaped implement of iron. The two men
then set to work.

McCann held firmly while the other struck. After each blow he would
half-turn the drill. When a dozen strokes had been given, he poured
a little water in the hole, and thrust the drill through a bit of
sacking to keep it from splashing. The other man jammed his hat down
closely over his forehead and struck fiercely, alternately breathing
in and grunting in rhythmical succession. When the hole became
clogged with fine, gray mud, McCann carefully spooned it out with
the T-shaped instrument, wiping the latter each time on his
trousers. While he did this his companion leaned on his sledge or
threw chunks of rock, with wonderful accuracy, at the squirrels that
ran continually back and forth on the ridge. As the hole grew
deeper, longer drills were used, until at last the longest of all
left barely enough above the surface of the rock to afford a
hand-hold. With that the miner expressed himself satisfied. He then
brought three cylindrical packages wrapped in greasy paper.

Whats them? McCann inquired.

The miner grunted contemptuously.

Hercules powder, he replied. He pronounced the proper name in two
syllables.

With a sharp knife he cut these into lengths of about three inches
each, and dropped them one by one into the hole in the rock. He then
rammed them home with a hickory ramrod, just as all old miners will
insist on doing. Because of this a large percentage of old miners
have no fore and middle fingers on their right hands. The last piece
he split, inserted in the crack a bit of fuse, on the end of which
was a copper cap, dropped it in, and then carefully chinked-in with
the wet grit which had been spooned out of the hole.

Mosey for cover, Irish! he said, and touched it off.

From behind his tree McCann saw the sputtering fuse disappear. The
next instant the rock seemed to bulge, splitting in radiation as it
did so, and then the smoke belched forth in a canopy, filled with
fragments of quartz. Following the miner, he found a jagged opening
in the rock. Then they sharpened their drills at the forge and went
at it again. By night they had fired two more blasts, and had made a
start toward a shaft. After the third, Bob, the miner, said,
glancing at the West: Thatll do, Irish.

They _cahed_ the tools, caught up the water-bucket, and swung
rapidly down the trail. Bob was ahead, slouching along with the
mountaineers peculiar gait, which seems so lazy, and yet which gets
over the ground so fast. In a very few moments he reached the gulch
below, plunging from the bare, rock-strewn hillside under the pines
to the lush grasses and cool saplings of the caon bed, as from a
desert to a garden. He looked around to say something. McCann was
gone.

Well, Im damned! he ejaculated, and yelled loudly.

After a moments pause, from far down the opposite slope came a
faint whoop. Bob sat down on a fallen tree, and waited
philosophically, shouting at intervals. In a little while the
Irishman came charging frantically up the gulch, tearing along
through the vines and bushes at full speed, so terrified that he
passed within ten feet of Bob without seeing him. The latter watched
him surge by with an odd little twinkle in his eye. Then suddenly he
shouted again. Pat slowed up, looked about for a moment vacantly,
and then his rugged Hibernian face broke into a multitude of jolly
wrinkles.

Arrah, its yerself, darlin, he said; Oi thought its Pat McCann
as is goin t slape wid th mountain lines this night!

You stick t me, was Bobs only comment.

After a short climb the men reached the camp on a knoll overlooking
two confluent gulches. There was the superintendents office, the
cook-house, the bunkhouse, the blacksmiths shop, the stables, and
the corral--all of logs. Supper was served at sundown. The men filed
in, took off their coats, and sat down without a word. As each one
finished eating, he arose, put on his coat again, and sauntered
outside, filling his pipe as he went. Finally the whole gang was
gathered at the bunk-house, smoking, telling laconic stories, or
playing cribbage--the great American game in the mountains.

As the last comer, Pat was told to water the horses. He went boldly
into the corral with a rope, and was kicked flat. The boys
straightened him out, and, after he had regained his breath, gave
two of the horses halters into his hands. Except in the main caons
of the Black Hills there is no surface water, the creeks all running
down along the bed-rock. As a consequence, wells are necessary even
in the upper hills. Pat first let a horse get loose, then he lost
the bucket down the well, then he fell in himself in trying to fish
it out. The boys fished him out with some interest. So manifestly
inadequate an individual it had not been their fortune to meet
before, and they looked on him as a curiosity. On the spot they
adopted Pat McCann much as they would have adopted a stray kitten or
puppy, and doubtless in somewhat the same amused, tolerant state of
mind.

The next morning Bob and Pat cleared away the _dbris_ of the three
blasts, wrenching off the broken, adhering bits with a pick, and
shoveling them out. King came up with an axe-gang and built a rough,
square breastwork of logs down the hill, to catch the quartz as in a
bin. They also squared a number of timbers, and tongued the ends.
These were to timber the shaft.

All this interested the little Irishman. He recovered his spirits,
and his Old World blarney came back to him. The clear, fresh air of
the hills, the abundant food, the hard work, the sound sleep, the
reaction against the taciturnity of the men, and the calm grandeur
of the mountains, filled him with animal spirits. He imagined he had
found his vocation at last. He wanted to do everything. In time he
learned to strike with the sledge, although it was only after long
practice on a stake that he could induce any one to hold for him;
he sharpened drills--after a fashion; he even helped in the
timbering-up. The only thing lacking was the shooting of the
charges. He had an ambition to touch the thing off. This King
roughly forbade.

That fly-away fool to risk his neck that way? he said; I guess
not! He dont know enough now to make his head ache. When I want a
wild Irishman too dead to skin, Ill let you know. I dont want that
man to have the first thing to do with the powder. Understand that!

What King said went in that camp. Besides, the men knew him to be in
the right. Pat was the unluckiest man alive, and the most awkward.
He was sure to be in any trouble there was about--in fact, as Jack
Williams said, he was a sort of lightning-rod for the whole camp in
the way of trouble; every one else was sure of exemption, if there
was only one mans share of difficulty dealt out. So McCann pleaded
in vain.

This went to his heart. He would have given his black-thorn
shillalah from Dublin to have been looked upon as a full-fledged
miner. He used to put on all the airs of one in Sweetwater when he
went down there once a week, swaggering about in copper-riveted
jeans, with his hat on one side, conversing learnedly though vaguely
on blow-outs, horses, foot-walls, and other technicalities,
hauling out of his pockets yellow-flecked bits of quartz--in short,
putting on dog to an amazing extent. But as he turned past the
stamp-mill of the Great Snake and began to scale the heart-breaking
trail that led to the top of the ridge, his crest began to fall. As
he followed the narrow, level summit for the three miles of its
length, standing as it were in the very blueness of the air, his
spirits began to evaporate. When he took the shorter and gentler
descent to the camp, the old conviction had returned with sickening
force. He was not a miner. He had never shot. He used all his
persuasive powers in vain. For one thing, the men were afraid to
disobey King. For another, they liked Pat, and, having a firm faith
in his hoodoo, were convinced that his shooting and sudden death
would be synonymous terms. So Pat abandoned persuasion and tried
craft.

The old shaft on which he and Bob had first begun work had been
carried down fifty feet. Appropriate cross-cuts and drifts had been
made to exploit the lead. It was now abandoned. Bob and Pat were put
to work at another spot in the same lead a little farther along the
ridge. The place marked out for the first blast was between two huge
bowlders, or rather between the two rounded cheeks of one bowlder.
The passage between them was perhaps five or six feet wide. One end
led out in a gradual descent to the broad, open park of the ridge
top, the other dropped off abruptly three or four feet to another
level place. Around the corner of the first the miners kept their
tools and forge; down the second they planned to drop when the blast
was fired; and there they had built a little fire, it being, on that
particular day, in the lee of the rock.

The hole had been all drilled before Bob discovered that he had
forgotten to bring any powder; so, cursing, he started down the
passage to get some from the sheet-iron powder-house in the draw.
Hardly was he out of sight before McCann, chuckling softly to
himself, pulled from under a shelving bit of rock the missing
powder. With this he loaded the hole; he arranged the fuse, and then
dropped down the ledge to get a brand from the fire. It was nearly
out, so it took a few moments to start a torch. However, he was in
no hurry, as it was some little distance to the powder-house, and
Bob could not possibly return inside of half an hour. At last he
coaxed a bit of pine into a glow, and turned to climb back. A
startling sight met his eyes.

When Bob went to get the powder he stopped at the forge for the
water-pail. As he stooped to pick it up, something struck him a
sudden blow in the thigh that knocked him over and set the blood
flowing--he said afterward he thought the bone was broken. When he
could see, he looked about to find what had hit him, and discovered
not ten feet away the long, tawny body of a puma.

The great cat lay watching him through half-shut eyes, lazily
switching its tail back and forth. From the depths of its throat
came a deep rumbling purr. He tried to rise, but could not. Then he
turned over on his left side and started to crawl painfully through
the passageway of the rocks. The beast opened its eyes and followed
stealthily, step after step, still switching its tail, and still
purring. It was in a sportive mood, and played with its prey, as a
cat plays with a mouse. Inch by inch the man pulled himself along,
leaving a trail of blood. At last, within a few feet of the ledge,
he stopped; he could go no further. The puma, too, paused.

At this moment Pat McCann, a blazing pine-brand in his hand, looked
over the ledge. Bob saw him and faintly warned him back. The puma
saw him too. The purring ceased, and the lithe muscles tightened
under the skin. The game was over. The animal was preparing to make
its spring.

It did not occur to the little Irishmans fighting soul to retreat.
His comical features stiffened; his little blue eyes fairly snapped.
Slowly he drew himself up on the ledge, keeping his eye fixed on the
puma, until he stood erect, then he shifted his brand mechanically
into his left hand, and drew his sheath-knife. He did not know that
the fire was his best weapon, and Bob was too weak to tell him. The
brand, held point downward, began to blaze. The pumas great eyes
shifted uneasily at this, and its muscles relaxed. It was evidently
discomposed. Pat did not await the attack, but stepped forward,
holding his knife firmly.

When within a few feet of the animal, Pat hesitated and stopped. His
nerve was still unshaken, but he did not know how to begin. The puma
still sniffed uneasily at the blaze, but had recovered from its
first fear, and was again gathering its powers for a spring. For a
moment there was absolute silence, and Pat heard through the still
air the sharp chatter of a squirrel and the clank of the ore-teams
whiffle-trees from the ore road far below. While he stood thus
uncertain, the fire from the pine, having run up along the torch,
began to burn Pats fingers. Without moving his head or shifting his
eyes, he dropped it gently--plumb upon the fuse he had so carefully
arranged a few moments before. Then he took a step backward to avoid
the smoke. There was a splutter and a flash, then a sudden roar. The
man and the beast were hurled violently in opposite directions, and
a volcano of rock shot high in the air and showered down again.

The axe-gang found the puma very dead and Pat very hard to revive.
The whisky-and-water method brought him around at last. He looked
hazily about him in evident bewilderment until his eye caught sight
of the dead animal, and then his face lighted up with eager joy.

Glory to God, Oim a miner! he shouted. Oive shot at last!




TEN THOUSAND YEARS IN ICE

By Robert Duncan Milne


While lounging listlessly along the sea-wall one afternoon about the
beginning of August last--the eighth, I think it was--enjoying the
sunshine and inhaling the sea-breeze, my attention was attracted to
an unusual bustle and commotion on the quay of Section Two. I could
see from where I was that considerable exertions were being made to
transfer some heavy object from a vessel moored alongside the quay
to the quay itself. As I got nearer I discovered by the name on the
stern that the vessel was the whaling-bark _Marion_, and that the
object which the crew, assisted by a number of longshoremen, were
making such efforts to get on shore was an immense rectangular
block, measuring some nine feet in length by about four in breadth
and thickness. Had it been a block of granite, the men could not
have worked harder, prying it with rollers and levers along a
gangway made of a dozen or so of stout planks laid abreast from the
ships deck to the quay. As, however, this object, whatever it was,
was swathed and enveloped with a plentiful supply of sacking, I
could form no opinion as to its nature.

While standing abstractedly by, looking on and speculating as to
what this very heavy object might be, and wondering what it could be
doing aboard a whaler, I was tapped gently on the shoulder by
somebody, and, looking round, my eyes rested on a heavily bearded
and bronzed individual in pea-jacket and rough trousers, with a
laughing eye, who said, cheerily: What! dont you know me?

I was certain I had never seen the man before, though something in
the voice sounded familiar. My doubts, however, were speedily set at
rest by this individual exclaiming: Dont you recollect Joe
Burnham? Has a year made such a difference? If so, Im glad of it.
You couldnt have paid me a better compliment.

Can it be possible? I said, in surprise, as I grasped his hand;
why, Joe, who would have expected to meet you coming off a whaler?
And with a heavy beard, too!

Why, I thought you knew all about it, he returned, with equal
surprise; just wait a minute, he added, as he turned to give some
directions to the men who had now got the heavy object safe on
shore, and were proceeding to hoist it upon a dray.

While he was thus engaged, I recalled some circumstances which
served to explain the unexpected and original appearance of my
friend.

Joe Burnham, the son of the well-known millionaire mining-man, had,
I knew, been recommended to go abroad for change of air about a year
before, owing to failing health arising from too intense application
to study. This, however, was all I knew, and I had no idea that he
had concluded to take his change of air aboard a whaler. But knowing
his taste for scientific pursuits of any and every character, I can
not say that I was very much surprised to meet him again as I had
just done. At any rate, the trip had certainly been most beneficial,
as he had changed from a sickly and rather delicate student to a
hale, hearty, and robust man.

Yes, he remarked, as he came back from the dray, which was now
moving slowly off, the four sturdy horses which drew it evidently
straining under the weight with which it was loaded, my doctor
prescribed absolute freedom from brain-work of any kind. He shook
his head when I suggested Europe. There was too much, he said, to be
seen in Asia, or, in fact, in any other quarter of the globe, to
insure the perfect repose he thought necessary. Even a prolonged
yachting excursion did not meet his views. That, he said, would be
worse than anything else. Its very monotony and loneliness would
drive me to cogitation. The sea part of it, he admitted, was
capital. If a sea voyage could be combined with excitement and
something to do--but would I work? Then some lucky inspiration
seemed to flash across my mind, and I asked him if there were any
objections to a whaling trip. The very thing, he said; you have
plenty of money and can go more as a passenger than as a sailor. You
wont have much time to study on board _that_ kind of a vessel, and
Ill risk all the chances you get to indulge in the study of the
flora and fauna of the Arctic. And now you see how it is that I
happen to be disembarking at the present moment from the stanch bark
_Marion_.

You seem to have got plenty of baggage, anyhow, I returned,
motioning toward the dray, which was now fast retreating in the
direction of the city; your share of the blubber, perhaps, I
added, banteringly; or maybe specimens of the flora and fauna of
the Arctic, which your doctor cautioned you against.

Partly right and partly wrong, said Burnham, sententiously and
somewhat seriously; you may have got nearer the truth about that
queer parcel than you think. But this is no time or place to speak
about it. Come up to the house to-morrow forenoon, if you have time,
and I will show you something that will astonish you. I particularly
wish you to come, he added, with emphasis; you will be amply
repaid for doing so by what you will see. Meantime, I have something
more to arrange on board this vessel. So saying, he crossed the
gangway and disappeared.

Next morning about ten, in accordance with my friends invitation, I
ascended the steps of the Burnham mansion, rang the bell, and sent
in my card. I was evidently expected, as the servant requested me to
follow him, and led the way downstairs. There, in a small court-yard
sacred to himself, and in which, together with two apartments
opening thereon, my friend conducted his experiments, I found him in
his shirt-sleeves, superintending the disposition of the ponderous
mass which had excited my curiosity the day before on the sea-wall.
The workmen had just succeeded in hoisting it on to a strong and
massive trestle-work, some three feet from the ground, and upon this
the nondescript, oblong package, swathed with sacking and bound with
ropes, now rested.

There! said Burnham, as he settled with the men and turned the key
of the door leading into the ordinary court-yard of the house; the
most laborious part of the job is over. It was no easy matter
getting the package up here. But now, as publicity at this stage
must on every consideration be avoided, I must ask you to stand
ready to lend me a hand when necessary. Better leave your coat in
the laboratory or in the studio--which you please--you can suit
yourself.

The laboratory and the studio were the respective names of the
two rooms opening onto the court-yard where we were now standing,
which was itself separated, as I have said, from the main court-yard
of the building by a tolerably high wall, opposite which were the
entrances and windows of the rooms aforesaid, which had been
originally intended for outhouses of some sort. The other two sides
of this little court-yard were blind-walls of the house itself.
Certainly, if secrecy were the requisite aimed at in my friends
enterprise, whatever it might be, a happier place could not have
been chosen. The laboratory and the studio, while each opened on
the court, and while there was also intercommunication between the
rooms, differed greatly in interior arrangement, as well as in the
uses to which they were put. The laboratory was fitted up with
benches, tables, and shelves, littered with chemical, optical,
electrical, and photographic apparatus, zoölogical and botanical
specimens, _et hoc genus omne_; a perfect scientific chaos, in
short, without a semblance of law and order. The studio, on the
other hand, was richly and luxuriously furnished and kept in
scrupulous order by Burnhams own valet, who, I noticed, however,
was not there at this time.

Passing into the laboratory first, I noticed that a trestle-work
similar to that in the court-yard stood in the centre of the floor,
and that it was surmounted by a shallow pan of zinc, fitted at one
end with a waste-pipe, like that of a bath-tub, leading to the
gutter of the court. I was still further surprised to note, when I
passed on into the studio, that the centre of that chamber also
contained what might be termed a supplement to the trestle-work, in
that the furniture had been moved to one side to make room for an
improvised table on which rested an ordinary mattress. In addition
to this a bureau-bed had been unfolded and set in readiness at one
of the walls, while a blazing fire burned in the grate, although the
day was anything but cold. Before I had time to speculate upon the
meaning of all these mysterious preparations, I heard Burnham
calling, so throwing my coat on a settee I hastened to join him. I
found him engaged in firing up a small portable steam-engine that
stood in one corner of the yard, and in affixing to the exhaust-pipe
of the cylinder another pipe, several feet in length, with a movable
arm, evidently for the purpose of ejecting steam in any desired
direction.

Now, he said, as he completed the connection, while the boiler is
getting up steam, you and I must get to work and uncover our
package. I expected Dr. Dunne here before this, but doctors, you
know, are always entitled to latitude in non-professional matters.

So saying, he took a knife and began to cut away the ropes from the
package, I following his example. Then we removed layer after layer
of sacking, the air growing, I thought, all the time sensibly
colder, till upon removing the last of the sack-cloth--we could not,
of course, remove the wrapping on which the weight rested, but
merely contented ourselves with ripping the top open and letting it
fall on either side--what was my surprise to see before me an
immense oblong block of blue, pellucid ice. But who shall express my
feelings when, a moment after, I discerned _imbedded in the heart of
the transparent crystal the form of a man_.

But let me describe what I saw. There, lying on its back in the
middle of the frozen slab, was unmistakably the body of a man, but
so wonderfully life-like in every detail that it was as difficult to
believe that the man was dead as it was to conceive how he had come
into his present position. The eyes were dark and wide open, and
whether or not it was due to some peculiar refracting qualities of
the medium through which they were observed, they did not look
glassy or seem to have lost their lustre. The short, thick, curly
black locks that clustered about the forehead, and the closely
trimmed beard that fringed the cheeks, looked as natural as they
could have done in the heyday of life. But just as inexplicable was
the dress. It was composed of some light material such as is worn in
hot climates, and had more in common with the ancient Greek chlamys,
or the Arab burnous, than with any other type of dress that I
recall. Such colors as it had were tasteful and resplendent, and had
lost none of their original freshness. The feet were shod with
sandals, and a gemmed ring still sparkled upon one of the fingers of
the right hand. It was the face and figure of a handsome man of
thirty, or thereabouts, and the whole posture was so indicative of
repose as to indicate that, whoever he might be, he had met his end
calmly and without pain.

I turned mechanically toward Burnham and saw that he was watching my
surprise and smiling.

Well, what do you think of my package, he asked; was it worth the
trouble of bringing it here from the Arctic circle?

I must congratulate you on your specimen, I returned; it will
certainly be a great acquisition to our scientific men and
antiquaries. But how are you going to preserve it? Wont you find it
rather a difficult matter to keep the ice in a state of
congelation--and expensive, too, I should think?

That is not my intention, he replied; I mean to thaw him out.

And then? I queried.

Resuscitate him.

I looked at my friend to see if he were not joking, but could detect
no sign of mirth about his face.

Why not? he said; that man in the ice there is as organically
perfect as you or I are. No fibre or atom of his organism has
undergone any change since he came into the condition he is now in.
Say that he met his death--if indeed he is dead--by drowning, and
the water he was drowned in was subsequently frozen, he is no worse
off at this moment, even though he has been lying where he is
thousands of years, than the man who was drowned five minutes ago.
And I hold, and my friend Dr. Dunne agrees with me----

Dr. Dunne, one of the most scientific physicians and surgeons in the
city, as is well known, entered the court-yard at that moment, after
giving a secret knock, and apologized for his tardiness.

My friend, Dr. Dunne, I say, agrees with me, that our treatment of
drowned, or so-called drowned, men is all wrong, and that they can
be resuscitated hours after death has apparently supervened, if the
proper measures are taken. Drowning is simply a case of arrested
function, that is all. Provided the organism is sound, why should it
not be made to perform its functions again? Does a temporary
stoppage ruin a watch if the works are all right? If so, what are
doctors and watch-makers for, I should like to know? Is it not so,
doctor?

At all events we can try, rejoined the doctor, impressively; I am
heartily glad of such a favorable, such an ultra-favorable,
opportunity, I should say, of testing the efficacy of my treatment
of drowned men upon so promising a subject.

But what about the freezing, doctor? I ventured to remark, for the
coolness with which the whole subject was treated reminded me
painfully of my own deficiencies of scientific lore and rendered me
proportionately modest. I have always understood that frozen limbs
are as good as dead, and that amputation alone can save the life of
the rest of the organism in such a case. It seems to me that when
the whole body is frozen, so much the worse.

So much the better, returned the doctor, warmly; it is much
easier to work where the conditions are homogeneous.

By this time the steam escaping from the safety-valve of the
portable engine showed that the pressure was considerable, and
Burnham, who had previously shifted the slide-valve so that the
steam would pass straight into the exhaust, now wheeled the engine
opposite the block of ice, pointed the lateral pipe, which he had
connected with the exhaust, and which he manipulated on its joint by
means of a fork, toward the side of the block, turned the
globe-valve and let the jet of blue vapor play upon the ice. The
court-yard was soon thick with clouds of steam, but the huge
ice-block kept dwindling away as the steam was directed upon one
point or the other, by wheeling the engine round it, till in less
than half an hour the court-yard was little better than a puddle and
nothing remained of the ice-block but a crystal envelope, a few
inches thick, around the inclosed body, so deftly and skillfully had
Burnham directed the steam-jet upon all portions alike.

We shall now have to exercise more care, he remarked; the
remaining ice must be removed in a more gentle manner. Help me to
carry the body into the laboratory.

So saying, we all lent a hand and transferred the ice-bound body to
the zinc tray upon the trestles in the laboratory, in which a
roaring stove-fire had previously been lit, and the temperature of
which, when the doors were shut, was like that of a Turkish bath.

There! ejaculated Burnham, who, though in his shirt-sleeves, was
perspiring freely and panting after his work; so far, so good. Let
us go into the studio and sit down and rest while _our guest_--I
was struck with the quaintness of the epithet as applied to the
corpse in the next room, as also with the emphasis Burnham gave
it--sheds the remnant of the crystal mantle he has worn for who
shall say how many thousand years. It will take at least half an
hour before he is completely thawed out, and meanwhile, if you like,
I will tell you how I managed to run across him in the Far North.

We were all curious to know, so Burnham gave the following details:

After leaving San Francisco in March, last year, we sailed North
with the intention of reaching Behring Sea by the time the ice broke
up, hoping to do well enough with whales and seals to return before
the season closed. I had, of course, made my arrangements with the
captain, going as a volunteer, to do duty or not as I pleased, and
living in the cabin. We had the usual adventures which are part and
parcel of a whalers experience, and which I will not bother you
with, as they are not germane to the question, and I found my health
improving wonderfully under the influence of the fresh air,
exercise, and excitement.

By June we had passed Behring Straits and then cruised for a good
many weeks in the open sea beyond; but our luck was bad, and, owing
to trying to better it before we left, we waited too long; worse
than that, we were caught by a storm which blew us nearly due north
for several days to a point some hundred miles east of Bankss Land
and the Parry Isles; and before we knew where we were, we found
ourselves shut in by the ice, luckily in the lee of some bluffs,
forming part of a small island only a few square miles in extent, to
which circumstance alone we could attribute the escape of our vessel
from being crushed by the ice-pack. Subsequent observations showed
that we were in longitude 162 degrees W. and about latitude 76
degrees N.--a point, by the way, rarely reached by navigators even
under the most exceptionally favorable circumstances. There was
nothing for it, however, but to make the best of a bad job and
prepare to winter it out with the best grace we could. Luckily we
had plenty of provisions--I had looked after the matter of
commissariat, personally, before embarking--and I think I may safely
say that few whalers ever wintered in the Arctic circle better
equipped in that respect than we were.

As you can readily imagine, the life of a ships crew, ice-bound,
during the long, dark, northern winter is not an enviable one.
Suffice it to say that we got through it with probably less than the
ordinary amount of hardship, and were very glad to catch a glimpse
of the sun about the beginning of April, as it looked like a sign of
release, though the captain did not think the ice would break up for
at least six weeks longer. There was now some pleasure in rambling,
as there were a few hours of sunlight to do it by, and I used to
make the most of it, as one might get an occasional pop at a seal or
otter, and not unfrequently the captain--we were by this time great
chums--would accompany me.

One day in May we were tramping along, gun in hand, over the
ice-fields, going over some new ground to the east of the ship, when
we came upon a patch of remarkably clear and transparent ice, about
a mile from the vessel. This was the more peculiar as the generality
of the ice in our neighborhood was rough, jagged, opaque, and
usually coated with snow. Looking down casually as we were crossing
this patch, my eye was arrested by the curious spectacle of the body
of a man embedded in the ice, some sixteen or eighteen feet below
the surface. I called the captains attention to the phenomenon,
and, getting down on our hands and knees, we spent a good while in
examining the strange object as well as we could, and speculating
upon how it could have got there. What puzzled us most was the white
clothing upon the body, the captains theory being that it was the
corpse of some officer of consequence, belonging, perhaps, to some
government expedition, whose shroud had burst its canvas casing
after being consigned to the deep, and which had afterward drifted
there with the currents and frozen fast. I, however, whose eyes were
keener, could see that the dress upon the body was no shroud, and
that the features, instead of being livid, bloated, and swollen,
like those of a corpse that had been some time in the water, were
clear-cut, fresh, and untouched by decay. I became anxious to obtain
a nearer view of this strange discovery, and at length prevailed
upon the captain to let me have the use of half a dozen of the crew
to dig down through the ice till I could satisfy my curiosity
regarding it. Accordingly, next morning we set to work with pick and
shovel to sink a shaft in the ice, and it was only the work of an
hour or two before we were within two feet of the body.

At this distance I renewed my examination and became the more and
more impressed and mystified as I did so. But my astonishment was
still further increased when, upon gazing downward through the
pellucid depths below, I saw, or thought I saw, the dim outlines of
buildings, just as they might seem from the top of some tall
monument. I thought I could detect lines of streets and squares, the
buildings on which were white as of marble, their architecture
seeming to approach the Grecian in type. Gardens and trees, too, I
thought I saw, but the light of the low sun was so feeble that I did
not know whether it might not all be due to the fantastic forms of
sea-weed, and that imagination was doing the rest. As it was,
however, the impression I received served to increase my interest in
the mysterious object beneath me.

I now resolved to secure possession of this wonderful windfall,
from a scientific standpoint, which luck had thrown in my way; and
by dint of promising a liberal reward to my assistants I succeeded
in persuading them to dig round and below the body, leaving the
block, which we just now melted, only supported securely enough at
its ends to keep it from breaking down, till such time as we were
prepared to remove it. Here, again, I had a bitter altercation with
the captain, when I mooted my design of carrying off my prize. It
was absurd, he said, preposterous, to think of packing a huge block
of ice, containing only the dead body of a man, and of no earthly
use to anybody. Did I think that whalers were fitted out for costly
voyages into polar seas for the fun of the thing? Look at the room
it would take, if nothing else. No; he must draw the line there; he
would be d----d if he gave his countenance to any such nonsense as
that, science or no science.

I now saw that it was neck or nothing. There is nothing so obdurate
as a sea-captain, if he sets his foot down, and by long association
I knew my man. I determined to try him on a new tack, and to go to
almost any length in doing so, partly through the spirit of
opposition which is strong within me, and partly because I had
already formulated, in a vague manner, the scheme which we are now
carrying into practice. I felt a deep conviction, too, that I was in
some mysterious way working out mysterious ends, and that gave new
strength to my resolve.

Captain, I said that evening as we sat in the cabin, what do you
estimate that your present trip is worth?

Worth nothing as yet, he answered, with a growl; worse luck to
it.

I mean what would you take for the net earnings of the voyage,
provided somebody bought your chances for what you might pick up
upon the return?

The captain studied. It was plain that I had given his ideas a new
turn. Perhaps he divined the bent of mine.

Well, he said, at length, there would be the crew to be
considered, as well as myself, in a case of that sort. Were all
working on shares. Captain gets half, and the other half of the net
proceeds are divided _pro rata_ among the petty officers and crew.
What would suit me mightnt suit them.

Well, what could you reasonably expect to take on the home voyage
with average luck? I said, returning to the charge.

Half a dozen sperm-whales wouldnt be out of the way, returned
the captain, cheerily; might get more. Catch might range anywhere
from twenty to forty thousand dollars.

Call it thirty thousand, I said; would that be a fair average?

Well, theres twenty-two of a crew. That would net about seven
hundred dollars apiece for their share. I dont think they would
growl at that. Fifteen thousand would suit me, and I think I should
be very well out of it, for that matter. But why do you ask such
questions?

Read that, I said, for answer, and shoved a slip of paper across
the table.

Why, whats this? said the captain, taking up the slip of paper
and reading:

                                        Off the Parry Isles,
                                        Long. 162 W., lat. 76 N.,
                                        May 14th, 1888.

Bank of California, San Francisco.

Pay to the order of J. F. Manson, captain whaling bark _Marion_, the
sum of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000) and debit

                                                  Richard Burnham.

Simply a check for your possible gains on the return voyage,
captain. I want the use of your ship as far as San Francisco.
Everything satisfactory, I suppose. Good-night. So saying, I
strolled into my stateroom, leaving the worthy captain to deliberate
upon my proposal.

Next morning I purposely got up late; but by the earnest and
many-voiced conversation which I could faintly hear, upon the deck
above me, I knew that the seed I had sown was germinating, if not
bearing fruit.

Well, to cut a long story short, my proposal was accepted; the
ice-block dug out and conveyed to the vessel with a good deal of
trouble; my check certified and cashed in Victoria, where most of
the crew were paid off, and----here we are. Now, suppose we adjourn
to the laboratory and see if _our guest_ has completely thawed out
yet.

The strong heat from the stove had, in truth, very nearly finished
what the steam had begun. Though there was still a shell of ice
surrounding the body, it was little more than a shell, and Dr. Dunne
recommended that the next stage in the treatment should be
approached with all expedition. Burnham, accordingly, went off to
prepare a bath in the bath-room adjoining the studio, and when he
hailed us, the doctor and myself carried in the zinc tray with the
body and deposited the latter in the bath.

We must proceed very slowly, said the doctor, as he stood by,
thermometer in hand; I shall begin with a temperature of fifty and
increase it very gradually--say, in half an hour or so--to blood
heat. All the internal organs are, of course, frozen; the lungs,
too, are doubtless full of ice, and the first thing to be done is to
relieve them of the water. Not the least remarkable feature,
gentlemen, he continued, turning to us, is that this body must
have been frozen almost before--in my theory, certainly before--it
was drowned. But how to account for this? That is the point. It is
certainly beyond the range of our scientific experience, nor can we
conceive of any natural or chemical force powerful enough to effect
such a result. This man, too, is clad in the garb of a tropical, or
sub-tropical, region. These are evidently his every-day clothes
which he is wearing. He must have been both drowned and frozen
almost simultaneously. The drowning and the freezing must have been
nearly coincident events--at all events, within an hour or two of
each other. I can not see into it. I give it up, concluded the
doctor, with a shake of the head.

Still, said Burnham, have we not something of a parallel in the
elephants which, some years ago, were found embedded in the ice to
the north of Siberia, just as this man was? The elephant is a
tropical animal, and can scarcely be credited with going to the
North Pole on a pleasure trip. How do you account for that?

Perhaps, suggested I, it was a case of the mountain coming to
Mahomet in both instances. Perhaps the pole came to them. Suppose
that through some unknown natural cause, or some outside cosmical
agency, the axis of the earth should change abruptly, as it is
probable that it is now doing gradually, and that what were formerly
the equatorial regions became the polar, and _vice vers_, what
would naturally follow? In the first place, the oceans and seas
would be hurled over the continents in tidal waves miles high. Only
mountaineers dwelling in the highest altitudes would escape. That
would be the first result. The second would be that the waters upon
what were formerly the tropical regions would be frozen. The third
would be----what we see before us now in that bath.

Very ingenious, certainly, remarked the doctor, dryly; but we
have got no time for speculation now. Let us attend to business. Our
friend here should be pretty thoroughly warmed through by this time.
Please lend a hand to get him on the operating-table.

Accordingly, we removed the body from the bath to the mattress in
the studio, the room having been meanwhile closed and its
temperature raised to blood heat.

We must first get the water out of the lungs, said the doctor, as
he reached for what looked something like a stomach-pump, but which,
instead of the suction tube, terminated in a diaphragm made of some
elastic substance, which he applied to the open mouth of the body,
pressing it closely with his left hand, at the same time asking me
to compress the nostrils tightly. The flesh was now warm, soft, and
yielding. The doctor then drew back the piston of his pump and a
stream of water followed through the discharge tube. This was
repeated several times, till the lungs were pronounced free from
water.

A consultation now followed between the doctor and Burnham.

The blood in the veins and arteries, said the doctor, though it
has undergone liquefaction, is probably, to a certain extent,
coagulated. Though why, he continued, musingly, should such be the
case? At any rate, let us see.

He then took a lancet from his instrument-case and proceeded to make
an incision in the median vein of the left arm, when, to his
manifest joy, as I could see, a few drops of blood spurted out.

Yes! it is as I thought, he exclaimed, joyfully; the blood has
_not_ coagulated. It is a simple case of drowning, and, to all
intents and purposes, our friend here is no better and no worse off
than if he had been asphyxiated by water only a few hours ago. Mr.
Burnham, I congratulate you, taking that gentleman by the hand and
shaking it with the utmost enthusiasm, upon being instrumental in
providing a subject for resuscitation--for resuscitate him I do not
doubt that I shall, now that I have direct evidence that the blood
has undergone no chemical change--a subject, compared with which a
mere, ordinary case of drowning sinks into the most infinitesimal
insignificance; for--who can tell?--perhaps this man has lain in
this condition for hundreds, aye, for thousands of years; perhaps he
belongs to a remote prehistoric age, for ice, the great embalmer,
knows neither time nor seasons, and a thousand years are to it but
as one hour. Whatever our friend here is, or has been, he will
presently be one of us; he will open his mouth and unlock the
secrets of the past. He will tell us how he came to be in his
present plight. He will add another page to the worlds history.

I felt myself catching all the doctors enthusiasm, and now hung
upon everything that he did with breathless interest.

The next step, said the doctor, is to stimulate the hearts
action and restore the circulation. To do this will require our
united efforts. You, Mr. Burnham, will take charge of the battery
and apply the electrodes; our friend here--signifying myself--will
assist in inflating the lungs; I will attend to the circulation.
Your battery is ready, is it not, Mr. Burnham?

The battery, with its auxiliary apparatus for intensifying the
current, was brought round and placed on a table close by. Dr. Dunne
then made an incision in the breast so as to expose the breast-bone,
or sternum, and another in the back, in the region of the third
vertebra. To the former of these the negative pole of the battery
was applied, and to the latter the positive electrode.

Where is that phial, I wonder? interjected the doctor, looking
over his medicine-chest, and taking out bottle after bottle; ah,
here it is, he said, at last, here is the substance on which I
rely to restore the action of the heart and give new life to our
friend here. It has only lately been introduced into the
pharmacopia; but since its introduction it has done wonders in
cardiac affections. It is distilled from a plant which grows only in
East Africa. Its name is _strephanthus_, and its effect is to
accelerate the action of the heart. It is now my purpose to inject a
portion of this powerful stimulant into the median vein, which I
have just opened, in our friends arm, whence it will be conveyed to
the heart. Meanwhile, you, Mr. Burnham, and our friend here will
induce artificial respiration in the lungs, so that the blood may be
oxygenated after it has been expelled from the heart by the
spasmodic valvular action which the _strephanthus_ will excite in
that organ. Now, let us each attend closely to his allotted duty.

My part consisted in inflating the lungs by means of a tiny bellows,
the nozzle of which had been introduced into the larynx, till such
time as the breathing should become automatic and the rise and fall
of the lungs regular. At a given signal from the doctor, Burnham
turned on the current, the electrodes having been previously placed
in position, and, at the same instant, the chest expanded. I plied
my bellows as the breast rose, and a second afterward it collapsed,
the discharged air rushing back through the larynx with a whistling
sound. Three seconds afterward the chest rose automatically again,
and again I assisted its rise by inflating the lungs as before. This
was kept up for some dozen or more respirations, occupying in all
about two minutes.

Meantime, the doctor was intently engaged with a syringe and
graduating glass at the left arm of the body. So absorbed was he in
his occupation that he seemed oblivious to everything else. Suddenly
he sprang to his feet, with an exclamation which startled us.

We have won! he shouted; see! the blood is circulating.

I looked down at the arm, and, sure enough, blood was spurting in a
thin jet from the lower extremity of the vein which the doctor had
severed. In my excitement I had withdrawn the bellows from the
mouth, but there was no further use for artificial respiration, as
the chest was now rising and falling automatically and in regular
cadence. The doctor now tied up the severed vein, sewed up the
incision in the arm, and, after dressing the patient--for such he
must now be called--in a suit of Burnhams underwear, we lifted him
into the bureau-bed that had been prepared at the side of the studio
next the fire.

There is nothing more to be done, said the doctor, simply; he
will wake by and by of his own accord, and will then need some
nourishment. Soup and stimulants will be the proper thing to
administer at first.

Burnham went out and returned presently with a tray containing the
desired refreshments. We now waited anxiously for the awakening,
which must sooner or later come. The breathing, which had hitherto
been labored and stertorous, was becoming easier, the color was
returning to the cheeks, and the occasional twitching of the muscles
showed that our strange patient was on the point of awaking. At
length he turned on his side, opened his eyes, stared fixedly at us,
and then uttered an exclamation in some foreign tongue. Burnham got
up, wheeled a table to the side of the bed, set the tray of
refreshments upon it, and motioned him to help himself, at the same
time pouring out a glass of wine. Here Dr. Dunne interposed.

No, he said, smiling; after a fast of so many thousand years I
certainly must prescribe hot water as an initiative. It is
absolutely necessary for the stomach to begin with.

The hot water was brought, and our patient, evidently comprehending
that he was under medical treatment, shifted his position in bed so
as to recline upon his elbow, took the tumbler which was handed him,
and, after eying it critically, raised it to his lips and tasted the
contents. A shade of surprise and faint protest passed across his
features as he elevated his eyebrows, shrugged his shoulders, and
swallowed the potion.

Now let him attack the viands if he wants to, said the doctor, as
our guests eye roved somewhat greedily, I thought, over the table.
Burnham pushed the tray a little nearer, no second invitation being
necessary, and the bowl of soup that had been brought, together with
a couple of glasses of old Madeira, speedily disappeared. This duty
having been performed, our guest became voluble. He gesticulated and
spoke, and, to judge by the inflexions of his voice and the
character of his gestures, he was, I should say, appealing to us for
an explanation of his presence there and of the strange objects
which met his gaze. It need scarcely be said that we could not
understand one word of what he was saying, though the voice was
clear and mellow and the syllables of his words as distinct and
sonorous as ancient Greek, though they bore no other resemblance to
that language.

Suppose we bring him pen and ink and see if he can write,
suggested Burnham, and the idea struck us as a peculiarly happy one.

Pen, ink, and paper were accordingly set upon the table. Our patient
eyed the articles curiously for a moment or two, took up the pen,
and examined the steel nib with an expression of critical approval,
then took up a sheet of paper, examined its texture, and smiled, at
the same time spreading it out before him. It was evident that he
comprehended what was required of him, for he dipped the pen into
the ink and wrote a few words upon the paper, guiding the pen,
however, from right to left, according to Oriental usage. The
characters partook more of the Chaldaic, or ancient Sanscrit, than
any other type. As it was, none of us could make them out. Our guest
watched our efforts at deciphering with an amused smile, but when
one of our daily papers was handed him by Burnham, this quickly
changed to an expression of rapt attention and intense interest. He
did not, however, handle the sheet like a savage, but like one who
knew the object of it, examining the words and letters with the
closest attention, evidently to see whether he could gain any clew
to their meaning. After a minute or two he gave up the task, and
then, tapping his forehead with a tired expression, smiled at us,
lay back on his pillow, and was soon fast asleep.

He will be all right by evening, remarked the doctor; and then,
turning to Burnham, what will you do with him? Introduce him to the
Academy of Sciences, I suppose?

Not just yet, returned Burnham; I have no objection to some
inkling of our wonderful prize getting out--our friend here,
alluding to me, will, no doubt, attend to that--but I certainly
shall not bring him before the public in any way, nor even introduce
him to our scientific men, till I have educated him to some little
knowledge of our language. There will, I think, be no difficulty
about that. He is evidently a man of superior intelligence, and I
shall go right to work in the same way as if he was any ordinary
foreigner cast upon our shores with no knowledge of our language and
I myself equally ignorant of his. It is merely giving names of
objects, he learning my name for the object, I his. In that manner
we shall speedily arrive at a solution of the all-absorbing question
who this remarkable being is whom we have rescued from the jaws of
death, and who, to all intents and purposes, has been dead for--who
can tell?--how many ages past.

The events I have here detailed occurred on the ninth of August
last. Since that time, my friend Burnham has been enthusiastically
engaged in carrying out the project which he mapped out on the day
of the resuscitation of his remarkable patient and guest. His tailor
was called in, and, when Mr. Kourban Balanok, as the stranger calls
himself, left Burnhams studio three days after, he did so as a
nineteenth-century gentleman, and is now installed in Burnhams
house as one of the family. People may have noticed the young,
handsome, and distinguished stranger to be seen occasionally walking
arm-in-arm with Burnham on Kearny or Market Street, but none would
guess that he had lain in the North Polar ice in the neighborhood of
ten thousand years. Such is the case, however, and, as he is fast
acquiring an intimate knowledge of the English language, we may
confidently look forward to the appearance, in the near future, of a
detailed account of the economy of the prehistoric world, and of the
vast cataclysm which swamped it and left Mr. Kourban Balanok
embedded in the ice.




LEAVES ON THE RIVER PASIG

By W. O. McGeehan


The Boulong _casco_ lay on the Quiapo Market, which is on the left
bank of the Pasig, just below the suspension-bridge. The Chinese
junk--tradition says--was modeled after a whimsical emperors shoe,
consequently the _cascos_ of the Philippines, being really junks
without sails, are not very dainty bits of naval architecture. As a
rule, they are not accorded the dignity of a name; but this one was
known as the Boulong casco, because it was owned and manned by
members of one family. Santiago Boulong was steersman, his three
sons were polemen, and Simplicia, the daughter, was _el
capitan_--her father said, affectionately. Their permanent home was
a little _nipa_-thatch shelter at the stern of the vessel.

The men had gone ashore shortly after the mooring--the father on
business, the sons on pleasure bent--and Simplicia, much to her
disgust, was left on board. She was a Tagalo girl, of the
light-complexioned type, pretty even when judged by our standards,
of which fact she was aware.

The river, the river, she said to herself, petulantly, always the
river. I was born on the river, and I have been going up and down
the river all my life. When we come to Manila I may go ashore for a
few hours only, and then the river again--and the lake. And Ramon is
a fool!

It was a clear, warm night, and the rippling water of the Pasig
glistened in the moonlight, so that she could see the leaves rush by
in clusters. Ramon had said: Think of me when you see the leaves on
the river--the bright green leaves from the dear lake country. It
seems sad to think that they must float down past the city where the
water is fouled, and then out--far out--to be lost on the big salt
sea. But Ramon was always saying queer things that she could not
understand.

The murmur of drowsy voices came from the crowded huts of the
market-place. Oh, how long till morning! She wanted to buy some bits
of finery there, and then to stroll through the city, especially
along the Escolta, where there were stores that exhibited splendors
from all countries. She hoped that one of her brothers would hire a
_carametta_ the next evening, and take her to the Lunetta, where the
wealthy of Manila congregated to enjoy the cool night air and the
concert. A band of Americanos played there every evening.

They were wonderful men, these Americano soldiers, much taller than
Filipinos or Spaniards, and many of them had blue eyes and hair of
the color of gold. The pride of kings was in their stride, and they
looked as though they feared nothing.

Farther on down the river at the Alhambra Caf, where the Spanish
officers once gathered to hear the music of Spain, the orchestra
played a new air that delighted her. There was a burst of cheering.
The music was Dixie, and the demonstration was made by some
Tennessee volunteers, who always gave something reminiscent of the
old rebel yell whenever they heard it. From the Cuartel
Infanteria, across the river, the American bugles began to shrill a
tattoo. Their music was wonderful--everything pertaining to these
big, bold men was wonderful, she thought.

Something bumped against a side of the _casco_, and Simplicia
hurried over to order away a supposed ladrone. She leaned over the
side with such abruptness that the wooden comb slipped from her
heavy mass of black hair. It fell a dusky curtain, and brushed the
upturned face of a man. He was not a little brown Filipino, but a
tall Americano, fair and yellow-haired. He laughed a soft, pleasant
laugh. She drew herself backward with a frightened cry, but his eyes
held hers. The man was standing in a small canoe, steadying his
craft by holding on to the _casco_.

_Buenas noches_, he said, smiling. He spoke Spanish, but not like
a Spaniard or a Tagalo. Simplicia smiled, faintly. She knew that she
should go into the _nipa_ cabin, but this handsome man looked so
kind and--Ramon was a fool. And her father and brothers were
selfish, and----

So Simplicia returned the salutation, and stood leaning over the
bulwark tasting the delirious delight of her first flirtation. The
man--he was a college boy until the United States Government gave
him a suit of khaki and the right to bear the former
designation--thrilled with joy at the delicious novelty of the
situation. He was in a city that was at once the tropics and the
Orient, and over which hung the glamour of departed medival days.
For several hundred years guitars had tinkled on that river, and
voices had been lifted to laticed windows. The air was laden with
ghosts of everything but common sense and scruples.

A bugle across the river caused the man to recollect that he was
under certain restraint. I must go, he said, but he did not
release his hold on the _casco_.

Simplicias eyes were big and bright in the moonlight. He stretched
out one arm and drew her face toward him. She tore herself away, and
stood breathing hurriedly through parted lips.

_Maana por la noche_, said the soldier. He plied the paddle
vigorously, and the canoe glided away. But he looked back,
longingly, for Simplicias lips were very soft and warm.

She stood gazing after him till the canoe vanished into the shadow
of the Cuartel Infanteria. The unseen bugle softly wailed taps,
the call that bids the soldier rest. It is also sounded over graves.

                 *       *       *       *       *

The sun beat down fiercely on the Pasig. Canoes toiled up and
skimmed down the river. Lumbering _cascos_, their crews naked to
their waists, were poled painfully along. The Quiapo Market was
astir with a babble of tongues, the barking of dogs, and the
incessant challenge of hundreds of game-cocks. The little brown
people bought, sold, and bargained with the full strength of their
lungs.

Simplicia, as purser of the _casco_, was in the market purchasing
provisions, but she spent most of her time near the stall of a
Chinese vender of fabrics. After much haggling, she became the
possessor of a dainty bodice of silk and pia cloth.

Most of the girls who visited the market-place seemed to be drawn to
that spot, for there Simplicia met a friend who had left the lake
country a little later than herself.

Ramon will come down the river to-night, said the friend,
breathlessly, delighted to carry a message of that sort. He has
written something that he thinks they may print in _La Libertad_.
Isnt that wonderful? You must feel so proud of him. For a man to be
able to write at all is wonderful--but for the papers!

Apparently there were no words in the Tagalo dialect strong enough
to express the girls admiration. Simplicia tossed her head,
loosening the hair, a frequent happening. She caught the heavy
tresses quickly, and almost forgot for an instant everything but the
last time they had fallen.

Are you not pleased? asked the other girl, in astonishment. She
was dark, and not pretty from any point of view.

Oh, yes, drawled Simplicia, but Ramon is very tedious sometimes,
and the lake country is very dreary. We will go into the city this
afternoon and see the Americanos.

They saw many Americanos--State volunteers clad in blue shirts and
khaki trousers. The city was full of them. They occupied all the
barracks formerly the quarters of the Spanish soldiers, and they
crowded the drinking-resorts. Along the Calle Real they came upon
companies drilling, and on the Lunetta they saw an entire regiment
on dress-parade.

Simplicia, though she scanned every soldiers face, did not see the
stranger of the previous night, nor did she see a face that seemed
nearly as handsome.

They say, mused the other girl, that the men of Aguinaldo will
drive these Americanos out of Manila if they do not go of their own
accord soon.

Simplicia laughed scornfully, and pointed toward the troops. The men
were in battalion front, standing at present, and the sun
glistened on a thousand bayonets.

But there are only a few Americanos and there are many thousands of
Filipinos, said the girl.

The Americanos will take what they want and nothing can stop them,
announced Simplicia, decisively. Let us go to our _cascos_.

                 *       *       *       *       *

The twilight gathered on the river. In the north the sky was lit by
continuous flashes of lightning. Myriads of stars were overhead, and
the Southern Cross was viceroy of the heavens, for the moon had not
yet come into her kingdom. The water noisily gurgled by, and
Simplicia waited. Which would come first, the tedious Filipino
school-master lover or the stranger? Would the Americano come again?

She watched every canoe that passed, but they were all going up or
down. The moon appeared and clearly revealed the rivers surface.
Simplicia fixed her eyes on the shadow of the Cuartel Infanteria.
Something emerged from it and glided rapidly through the stream. It
was a canoe, and it was being paddled with strong, sure strokes
toward her. Her heart beat tumultuously, and she almost cried out in
her delight.

He came, and, fastening his canoe, swung himself aboard the _casco_.
Her arms were about his neck in an instant, and her beautiful
tresses escaped the comb again.

They sat in the shade of the _nipa_ thatch talking in low tones. His
arm was round her waist. Her head rested on his shoulder. He puffed
with deep breaths of enjoyment a cigarette that she had daintily lit
for him. The intoxication of the country was in his brain--the devil
that whispers, There is nothing but pleasure, and no time but now.

The _plunk-plunk_ of a guitar close by startled them both. Simplicia
trembled violently.

It is a foolish man who is always singing to me, she explained.

A clear, musical voice rose in a song, and the soldier checked a
question to listen, for the voice and the song charmed him from the
first note. The song was in Spanish, and, though he was by no means
perfect in the language, he caught the meaning and spirit of it. It
ran something to this effect:

    Bright are the leaves and the blossoms that grow in the
      beautiful lake country,

    They fill the place with brilliance of things celestial.

    Some of them drop or are thrown to the river,

    Helpless they drift on its swift running surface.

    Down past the city through sliminess foul,

    Out they are whirled to waters eternal

    Lost and forgotten forever and ever.

    Blossom I cherish; Ill hold thee.

    Never shalt thou leave the lake country.

    But my heart, it is sad for the leaves on the Pasig.

The last words died on the air like the sob or the faint cry of a
passing spirit. The soldier sat mute, like one bewitched by fairy
music. Simplicias lips, pressed against his cheek, brought him back
to her.

I do not care for him. On my soul, I do not! she whispered. She
was pretty, and her arm tightened coaxingly about his neck. His
better nature was conquered, and the devil in his blood reigned
supreme. The situation suddenly seemed highly amusing, and he
laughed a suppressed laugh of recklessness. To be serenaded by a
native poet while the arm of the troubadours lady-love encircled
his neck--verily he would have a great tale to tell some day.

There was a faint sound of a footfall on the deck of the _casco_.
The soldier disengaged himself. A face peeped in through an opening
in the thatch, and the American struck it a sharp blow with his
fist. He would have rushed after the intruder, but Simplicia held
him.

It is only a foolish man, she said, do not follow him. It would
make trouble.

I would not bring you any trouble, he said. What is the matter?
You tremble.

It is nothing, she replied. I love you.

The soldiers conscience smote him. He swore that he loved her, and
tried to believe that it was true. She seemed almost happy again.

To-morrow the _casco_ goes up to the lake again, and we will be
gone three days. Oh, that is so long!

Very long, he assented.

But you will wait and think of me always.

Yes, I will watch the leaves on the river----

She shuddered.

No! no! Do not speak of them. _Madre de Dios!_ I hate the river,
and I hate the leaves it drags along. I think I hate everything but
you.

The soldier was young, and this was his first experience with
hysteria and woman, which combination often disturbs even wiser
heads. It disturbed him exceedingly, but he soothed her finally with
the wildest vows and many kisses. He kissed a tress of her long hair
as he stepped from the _cascos_ poling platform into his canoe.

For the second time she watched the canoe till it glided into the
shadows. Then she shivered violently, chilled to the bone.

                 *       *       *       *       *

A sergeant of a certain regiment of United States volunteers was
prowling along the brink of the Pasig, outside the Cuartel
Infanterias walls, looking for a pet monkey that had disappeared.
Something in the long grass caught his eye, and he stopped. He
stepped back quickly and hurried around the corner of the wall,
returning with four soldiers.

He parted the grass with his arms, and they saw the dead body of a
Filipino girl. Her face was concealed by a disordered mass of black
hair, and, pinned to her breast by a rudely fashioned knife that was
buried to the hilt, was a miniature insurgent flag.

They tenderly bore the body to the pathway, and the hair fell from
the face. One of the soldiers let go his hold and tottered to the
ground.

Harrisons a softy, grunted one of the men. Take hold, sergeant.
Hes fainted, I guess.

The form was placed in an unused storeroom. When the news went round
the men came to view it, not out of curiosity, but to show respect
such as they would pay to their own dead.

This is the way I make it out, said the sergeant, sagely. The
girl was killed by Aguinaldos gang, and it must have been because
she spoke a good word for our people.

And well take it out of their hides when the time comes, said one
of the soldiers, snapping his jaws together, which resolution the
regiment unanimously adopted. Even the chaplain refrained from
chiding when he heard of it. He knew his flock.

There being no way of finding out anything about the girl, a fund
was quickly collected and arrangements made for the funeral. Several
hundred soldiers followed the hearse to the cemetery at El Paco.

The regimental chaplain read the regulation burial service, while
the men stood with bared heads. They placed at the head of the
freshly made mound a plain board that read:

                  FOUND IN THE PASIG.

After the last soldier had gone, a cowering thing walked unsteadily
up to the grave, and, kneeling beside it, laid down a cluster of
green leaves.

By God! I did love her. I did, he muttered, continuously. He drew
a pencil from his pocket and scratched her name on the board:
Simplicia.

And his youth was buried there.




THE GREAT EUCHRE BOOM

By Charles Fleming Embree


To Euchretown, Los Angeles County, came Mr. Stoker and his wife. He
bought ranches, and, strikingly dressed, drove about in the
rubber-tired buggies of real-estate agents; while Mrs. Stoker, a
handsome young woman, sniffed the social air. Just what should she
do to win, with _clat_, the commanding place in the local feminine
view? For her no slow progress to social supremacy! Rather the
Napoleonic sweeping away of rivals.

At that stage of its rise from a desert to a paradise Euchretown was
belied by its name. A sombreness hovered over the thought of the
place; the method of life was Puritanic. Euchre? One would have
thought there was never a deck in the town.

I dont want to be un-Christian, snapped the wife of Reverend
Hummel; but I wish that Mrs. Stoker had never stuck her foot in
this town.

Mrs. Hummel was out of place linked to a preacher. Fairly well had
she clothed her mind in the prevalent Puritanic mood; but in her
heart she was different. As for social leaders, she was the one, and
she knew it.

Why, Jennie, complained the Reverend Hummel, a pale gentleman with
eyes that ever bespoke a receptive surprise at his debts; your
words ring evil. And then the term you employed--stuck. How, pray,
could Mrs. Stoker stick her foot?

At this moment the maid (employed despite the mortgaged condition of
Hummels real estate) ushered in Mrs. Banker Wheelock.

And _have_ you heard the news about Mrs. Stoker! cried Mrs.
Wheelock, as Mr. Hummel, wandering away, hummed Throw Out the Life
Line in a fumbling voice. Oh, havent you got an invitation?

What is it? said Mrs. Hummel, darkly.

A euchre-party! Everybody!

Mrs. Hummels arms dropped limp.

But, of course, she said, nobody will go.

Theyre all wild about it! ejaculated Mrs. Wheelock; Mrs. Stoker
is said to have struck the psychological moment.

Mrs. Hummel started up.

There hasnt been a card-party for years! cried she; wherell she
get her decks? Does she carry around a trunk full? Or will she clean
out the saloons? But---- and the tears leaped up to her lashes, I
wouldnt be un-Christian about it.

Mrs. Wheelock arose and laid her hands on Mrs. Hummels arm.

Of course, dear, you know the only reason you wouldnt be invited
is that youre the preachers wife, soothed she; and then, with a
puzzled air: That _must_ be the reason.

Now the maid brought in an envelope. It was Mr. and Mrs. Hummels
invitation to Mrs. Stokers euchre-party. The eye of Jennie met that
of Mrs. Wheelock, as a partial relief made its way into the breast
of the preachers wife.

Did you ever hear of such impudence? she breathed.

                 *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. Stoker had a new green cottage with nine Corinthian pillars
(capitals enormously ornate) along her front porch. Within, electric
lights, white-pine woodwork, brilliant floral tributes of Axminster
carpets, and birds-eye maple furniture combined to produce an
effect luxurious, irrefutable.

Oh, yes, natty Stoker was saying to the men, I gave him three
thousand for his ten acres. Wheelock, run over to the city with me
to-morrow and look at the Pasadena Villa Tract. Ive a mind to pick
up a bunch of those lots.

O _Mrs._ Hummel! came Mrs. Stokers winning voice, and everybody
listened. There was the purple-draped hostess flowing toward the
preachers wife. I was dreadfully afraid you wouldnt come! Im
_so_ (powerful kiss) glad you did! And dear Mr. Hummel?

To-night he works on his sermon, said Mrs. Hummel, beaming about
on the faces of the alert and delightfully surprised company. I
persuaded him to run in for me later; for I just came to look on. Of
course, here she turned the sweet lips toward Mrs. Stoker, you
couldnt expect us to play.

Mrs. Stoker put new fuel in her smile to Mrs. Hummel; and Mrs.
Hummel did likewise further fire up her smile to Mrs. Stoker; and
the edified company sat down.

The games went on with a vim that made it seem some hungry gambling
spirit, dormant in the town, rose up and reveled. Mrs. Stoker had
risked it all on her belief in the psychological moment--and won!
The town was ready for sin.

And that little statue is the prize, now said Mrs. Stoker, moving
about. Mrs. Hummel, would you hold it up?

All eyes came round in sneaking way toward Mrs. Hummel, who grew
pallid. There, on the mantel, near her hand as she stood to watch,
was the statuette--a nude Greek maid.

Would you mind holding it up? They cant see, repeated Mrs.
Stoker, louder, fires in her eyes.

Hypnotized, Mrs. Hummel lifted it and saw a price tag, $7.50.

Why, said she, forcing into her voice the daring experiment of a
note of censure, I didnt know there was to be a prize!

Oh, echoed Mrs. Wheelock from a distance, instilling into her
tones a strain of triumph, I didnt know there was to be a prize!

No! chimed all the women, in mutually sanctioning delight, we
didnt know there was to be a prize!

Just a cheap little thing, said Mrs. Stoker.

A new brightening of eyes fastened on euchre decks. The games went
on with strange excitement; for, lo! all the women had suddenly
resolved to win or ruin their nerves in the fight.

Would you punch--while I look to the sherbet? whispered Mrs.
Stoker to Mrs. Hummel, with new, bald patronage.

The preachers wife stared round. The fascination of the game was
influencing her. She felt her footing go; she saw the Stoker
triumph, the reins gone from her hand. Desperately did she leap at
this only chance to cling to the victorious vehicle of pleasure
which her rival from this night on was to drive headlong through the
Puritanic mood of Euchretown.

Mrs. Hummel punched the cards.

More fierce became the spirit of gaming, until, with final shriek of
delight, Mrs. Wheelock won the statue. Followed by jealous eyes she
took it.

Splendid! she cried, examining the tag and seeing $7.50. Then she
passed it round. Beautiful! said the women, seeing $7.50.

And the corruption of Euchretown was accomplished.

We pass hastily to the strange fury in its later vigor. From the
night of the initiative prize an extraordinary inflation went on
apace. Scarcely had a week elapsed (full of gossip at the Stokers
indubitable success) when Mrs. Wheelock gave a second euchre-party.
And when the guests flocked to the bankers two-story house in the
mission style (on the fifty-foot lot which he bought for $1,400 of
Jeffreys Sassy), they were yet more morally poisoned to observe, on
the cut-glass dish which she awarded to shrieking Mrs. Botts, the
half-extinguished price-mark, $9.65.

For six days, $9.65 was a sort of tag to the towns mental status;
when, to the thrilling of all, Mrs. George Botts did suddenly cast
out invitations; and at Mrs. Botts brilliant affair, Mrs. Stoker,
after a dashing race neck-and-neck with six women who all but beat
her, won a clock on the bottom of which, mysteriously blurred, the
figures $13.75 could, after careful scrutiny, be distinguished.

The value of the prize at the fourth party was $15; at the sixth,
$19; at the ninth, $25.50. Agape, the town stared ahead at its
coming dizzy course. Then Mrs. Samuel Lethwait, taciturn woman,
stupefied the inhabitants of the place by making one flying leap
from $25 to $50. Out of the ranks, out of the number of the unfeared
had Mrs. Lethwait made her daring rise.

There was an instants recoil. Could Mrs. Stoker, Mrs. Wheelock,
Mrs. Botts pause now? Their shoulders were at the wheel, their hands
on the flying plow which tore up such amazing furrows in the social
field. The recoil was but momentary. At the very hour when Mrs.
Botts was putting on her hat, sworn to buy a prize worth $60, there
fell into her agitated hand an invitation. Mrs. Stoker had sprung to
the breach.

A scramble for the cottage of the nine pillars. And behold on the
golden lamp there displayed as prize, were the shameless figures,
$75.00.

Now had the insanity taken general root. He who fails to understand
knows not California. The dangerous mania once contracted, no matter
what its form, must continue till the collapse. If the gold fury of
49, and the equally furious land boom of 87, are not
object-lessons enough, let the sociologist recall the Belgian hares.
And if yet he doubts the historical verity of such a cast in the
California mind, let him give this euchre boom his careful
consideration. As men bid for twenty-five foot lots in San Diego in
the insane days of 87, so did women now bid, under the thin
disguise of euchre prizes, for choice positions in the social field
of Euchretown. It was the old disease.

In two more leaps the prizes had advanced to a hundred. And, most
significant of all, seldom was the price of a prize now paid down.
The credit system had saved the day. The people of Euchretown were
not millionaires. Few felt able to toss out a hundred with this
rapid periodicity. So small first payments, contracts, the rest in
six and twelve, became the rule.

In the rear dust of this race, panting, tagged Mrs. Hummel. Again
and again, contrary to the will of pained Mr. Hummel (who to himself
sang Throw Out the Life Line in despair), did she attend, punch
cards, look on with jealous eye; yet she did not play. She was a
buffer whom the sinners held between their gaming and their
consciences. Oh, how she longed to give a party that would stagger
the general mind!

Now for a fatal three weeks Mr. Hummel was in Oregon. Two sleepless
nights his wife spent tossing, then arose feverish, stood on the
high pinnacle of temptation, and plunged down.

First she went for a prize. The price had risen to a hundred and
forty; she must act quick; now!--lest she be ruined, for the boom
waited for no man. At a furniture store she asked information on the
contract system. The dealer (who had furnished prizes) was confused;
he could not accept the Hummels contract. Why? she gasped. Oh, he
hastened, it was not for doubts of the Hummel honesty; it was for
doubts of the honesty of the community. In the present furious state
he did not believe the Hummels would get their salary! Infinitely
sorry, infinitely polite was he; and she went away dazed.

But she would do it or die. One more hour of suffering brought her
back.

Ill mortgage our household goods, said she, dry-eyed, till
Hummel returns. And he agreed.

So, Mrs. Stokers old slain rival rose up astonishing over the
horizon. The chill that ran through the community with Mrs. Hummels
invitations, gave way to white heat, and everybody, euchre mad, now
rushed to the preachers home.

Mrs. Hummels struggles had been heroic; the house was decorated as
never before, the refreshments were beyond any that Mrs. Stoker had
conceived. And on the portires (given as a prize) the mark one
hundred and fifty dollars stook forth a challenge.

Mrs. Stoker, playing recklessly, lost; and her drawn face suggested
nervous collapse and thoughts criminal. But a crisis in the social
life of Euchretown was now imminent. There was yet another element
to Mrs. Hummels victory; a murmur went round of the coming ruin of
Stoker. As ladies moved to tables they eyed Mrs. Stoker, and
whispered gossip; as men sat down they hinted at revelations,
speaking in one anothers ears.

What is it? whispered Mrs. Hummel, huskily, to Mrs. Wheelock.

They say that Stoker is found out; that he gave false title to some
land!

At that moment Stokers wild, unnatural laugh was heard.

In the final neck-and-neck sprint to the goal, Mrs. Stoker, gone to
pieces, wretched, was distanced; Mrs. Botts carried off the
portires; the party broke up, and Mrs. Hummels night of sinful
conquering passed into history.

When Hummel returned, the news emaciated him. He went to bed and lay
ill for a week, and nobody threw out the life line to him. Nay, even
the bed he lay on came near to being snatched from under him. And
now, with the boom trembling on the verge of collapse, with
everybodys contracts coming due, bills began to rain upon the
preachers head.

Jennie, groaned he, you have ruined me. See, they havent paid my
salary, and the furniture man is mad. We will be cast into the
street!

Then there fell into Mrs. Hummels hands an envelope--Mrs.
Stoker--at home--Friday night--euchre!

Why, cried Mrs. Wheelock, bursting in with Mrs. Botts, everybody
knows that the Stokers are on the brink of ruin. They say he is
fighting like mad to keep his head up--maybe to keep out of jail!
This is their final fling. And everybody has learned about her
prize. Guess what it is!

And guess what it cost! shouted Mrs. Botts.

I wouldnt be un-Christian about it, declared Jennie, but I do
think swindlers had better hide their heads. What is the thing,
then, and what does it cost?

There was an impressive hush.

A bedroom set worth two hundred! And shes let everybody know that
she paid cash down for it.

They all gazed at one another, the fire of gaming in their eyes.

She is making one last grand play, said they.

One day of gloom did Mrs. Hummel pass in Hummels bedroom, arguing,
pleading. To Hummel, he and the whole town were gone to the devil.

No! Never! cried he, receiving more duns, and shaken.

But at last toward night he arose and, haunted, went to the furniture
store. In the window was the bedroom set, and over it a sign, The
prize for Mrs. Stokers euchre-party. Staring, the emaciated Hummel
lost his soul.

Would it cover the bill, he whispered, hoarsely, in the dealers
back room, if we won it?

About, mused the dealer; Hummel, since its you. Id call it
square.

And Hummel returned, unsteady on his feet.

                 *       *       *       *       *

Once again the cottage of the Corinthian pillars shone with the
brilliancy of a euchre evening. Stoker was making a high play
to-night to keep his footing with the men. Mrs. Stoker had rouged to
hide the pallor of her cheeks. The house distanced all previous
efforts in its decorations, the refreshments were beyond the
experience of the most high-rolling citizen of the town.

Behold, in came Mrs. Hummel, her blood up.

And dear Mr. Hummel? asked Mrs. Stoker, taking Mrs. Hummels hand
in both of hers.

Hummels in bed, said Jennie, tersely; Mrs. Stoker, Ill play
to-night.

A moments silence, as of a solitude; then a great hubbub, the
guests making for tables.

So glad! cried Mrs. Stoker; weve always hoped you would!

So glad! shrieked all the women into Mrs. Hummels ear; and the
games began.

Why dwell on the mad scramble? That night was the culmination.
Disgraceful as was the thing in itself, it pales before the disgrace
incident to a mood of reckless confession which seized the company.
Somebody blurted out that shed win that two hundred or die. Then a
nigh insane man in a corner shouted across the room, to the shocking
of all: Lets make it poker!

The laugh that greeted this was spasmodic; and all at once right
before Mrs. Hummel on the central table, Mr. Stoker, as though he
had lost his mind, and grown wild and cynical, began to deal
out--ten-dollar bills from his deck. These Mr. Wheelock snatched up
and shook aloft with fearful merriment under the chandelier.

In that instant the boom collapsed. Who could predict the
psychological moment? The sight of the ten-dollar bills was too
much. Shame rushed into every breast; the reaction began; and
henceforth in the hands of everybody but Mrs. Hummel (who, brain on
fire, had failed to catch the significance of the moment), euchre
fell a limp and lifeless thing.

And that alone is why the preachers wife, who scarcely knew her
bowers, won the bedroom set.

A sudden, fierce knocking at the door, and in burst an officer.

I have a warrant for the arrest of John Stoker, said he.

Im here, said Stoker, sneering and white; and Mrs. Stoker
fainted.

Everybody stared; all seized hats; like rats the euchre players
slunk away; the Corinthian cottage, like a bedizened but deserted
courtesan, stood gaudily shining in the night, alone.

Later the town awoke, as the high-roller awakes next morning with a
suffering and repentant head, and the readjustment began. Everybody
owed somebody for prizes, as, in 88, everybody owed somebody for
lots. Everybody was a buffer to everybody. The thing let itself down
and evened itself up, and nobody was hard on anybody. And thus the
euchre boom passed into history.

Now the church people began to rehabilitate their consciences. And
Banker Wheelock hit upon a scheme. As financier of the bankrupt
soul, Wheelock will ever stand out a genius.

Why, said he to Botts, we did it to help Hummel.

True, said Botts, dazzled; lets go and tell him.

And on a Saturday evening a score of citizens came to Hummels
house.

Hummel was lying pallid on a lounge.

Weve come, said Wheelock, blandly, to felicitate you. We
couldnt bear to see you carry that debt, Hummel. We fixed the
little thing in what was, I agree, an unprecedented way. But when we
schemed beforehand with Mrs. Stoker to give a party and pass the
victory on to your wife--Hummel, my friend, our hearts went with
it!

And Hummel, seeing this astonishing loophole for them all, arose to
greet the general smile.

Kind friends, said he, in trembling relief, more blessed is it to
give than to receive.




THE SORCERY OF ASENATH

By Maria Roberts


People often ask me why I gave up a promising business career and
devoted myself to traveling, in which I find no pleasure; exploring,
for which I have no taste; and archology, which is to me the most
tiring of pursuits. The question has never been answered, save by
the statement that there is no reason to give, which involves the
telling of an incredible story.

There are two or three to whom I would like to tell it. If they
survive me, they shall know--to that end, these pages.

It is my conviction that whatever intelligent man has known, he has
tried to record in some way--that living truths, new to us, may be
gleaned from the stone tablets of races extinct for ages. For such a
truth, I am searching. One man found it, but he is dead. His spirit
I have called up, as the woman at Endor called up Samuel, and
questioned it. He told me that the knowledge had sent it to the
world of shades before its time, and had put power into the hands of
an evil one, who had bidden it never in any place to reveal to any
mortal what it knew.

Even yet I must obey her, said the spirit of Paul Glen; but what
you seek is written.

As yet, I have not read. Many strange things have I unearthed, but
never this that I seek.

Now, I will write my story. You who read it may believe or not, as
you see fit. I know that it is true.

It is many years now since I went South to visit my sister Helen. I
had not seen her since the day of her marriage, three years before,
till she met me at the door of her own home and welcomed me in her
old sweet and quiet manner. It seemed to me, at the first glance,
that her face had aged too much, and that a certain once fine
expression--a suggestion of latent determination--had overdeveloped,
and marked her with stern lines. From the first moment, too, I
feared the existence of a trouble in her life, of which her letters
had given no hint.

She seemed, though, cheerful enough. She led the way into a great
room that was shaded and cool and full of the scent of lilacs. With
a motion of her hand, she dismissed three or four black maids, whom
she had been assisting or instructing at some sewing work, and they
went out, courtesying and showing their white, even teeth at the
door.

A fourth did not leave, but retired to a far end of the room and
went on with the sewing. I noticed what a tiny garment she was
making, and what a sharply cut silhouette her face made against the
white curtain of the window by which she sat.

Helen chatted away, apologizing for her husbands absence, asking a
host of questions, and planning some pleasure for every one of the
days of my stay with her. I lay back in my chair, with a feeling of
languid content, and listened. When Helen suggested sleep and
refreshment, I declined both, feeling no need of anything but her
presence and that delicious room, the atmosphere of which was laden
with rest as with the scent of the lilacs.

The black woman sat directly in the line of my vision, and I
remember now that my gaze never strayed from her. I noticed, idly at
first, then with interest, the regularity of her features and the
grand proportions of her head and bust. Her hair, brownish in color,
with dull copper tints, was as straight as my own, and she had a
hand and arm so perfectly molded that, except for their black skin,
they might have been those of a lady of high degree. But it was the
pride, speaking from every line of that dark face, that most
attracted my notice. There was in it, too, an exultant sense of
power, and it was the most resolute face, black or white, that I
ever saw.

Presently I began to feel that it required an effort to keep the
thread of what Helen said, and to reply. Her voice seemed to get
faint, then to come in snatches, with an indistinct murmur between
them; at last, not at all, though I knew she was still speaking.

I was not unconscious, but perception was contracted and
concentrated upon one abnormal effort. From me a narrow path of
light stretched down the room to the black woman. She seemed to
expand and to grow luminous; a vapor exhaled from her, floated to
the middle of the pathway, and there assumed her own form, almost
nude, perfect like her face in its every line, motionless as if
carved from ebony, but with fierce, impure eyes that looked straight
into mine and from which there seemed to be no escape.

Their gaze begot an overwhelming sense of disgust. My soul
shuddered, but my body could not move. The evil face smiled. A cloud
floated over the form of ebony, slowly passed away, revealing one
like polished ivory, but the eyes changed not.

How long their gaze held me motionless and helpless I do not know.
Suddenly, something white shut out the vision, and my sisters
voice, now harsh and loud, struck upon my hearing like a lash.
Instantly the room assumed its ordinary appearance, the scent of the
lilacs greeted me as if I had newly come into the atmosphere, and
Helen, in her white dress, stood before me, trembling.

The negress at the window looked at us both with insolent amusement.
It was to her that Helen spoke.

How dared you! she exclaimed; oh, that I could punish you as you
deserve!

The girl smiled and slowly drew her needle through the cloth in her
lap.

Go out to Lucas, commanded Helen. Go!

The girl drew herself up, and her face took on an expression of
sullen defiance. It seemed for an instant that she would not obey.
She clenched her hands, and I heard her teeth grate together. But
she hesitated only a moment, then went slowly out of the room.
Presently she passed by the window, pushing a heavy barrow full of
earth. Lucas, the gardener, followed, carrying a long gad. In a
minute or two they passed again, going in the same direction, and
afterward again and again. The girl was pushing the barrow around
and around the house.

That is the heaviest and most menial employment I can devise for
her, said Helen; I wish there were something worse. She grows more
impudent every day, but this is the first time she has dared to
exert her snaky power upon a white person in my presence. How did
you feel while you were under that spell?

Now, Helen, for heavens sake dont imagine----

I imagine nothing, she interrupted, in a low voice. I know that
girl. She can do strange things. If ever a human creature was
possessed of a devil, she is.

Why, Helen!

She went on without heeding my astonishment. Every negro on the
plantation, except Lucas, is mortally afraid of her. My birds cower
in a corner of their cage if she approaches them, the gentlest horse
we have will rear and kick at sight of her, and if she goes into the
poultry-yard the hens cover up their chicks as if night had come.
She has affected others as she did you. She has done worse. When I
first came here, she was given to me for a maid; but, not liking
her, I took a little mulatto girl who was bright and smart then, but
who is now idiotic through fear of Asenath.

I did not think it best to dispute with Helen, knowing her well
enough to be sure that any argument I could adduce against her
belief she had already weighed and found wanting. She was not a
superstitious woman, nor a hasty one, but one whose very mistakes
deserved respect, since she always took that course of action which
she believed to be wisest and best, even if it were to her own
disadvantage. I simply asked: Why do you not get rid of her?

I have tried, but something frustrates every effort of that kind.
Robert objects to sale--it is unusual on this plantation. We once
offered her her freedom if she would go away; but she only looked as
if she scorned the freedom we could give, and laughed in a way that
chilled my blood.

She seems very insolent.

Insolent--that is a weak word! I sometimes think she is
birth-marked with impudence as she is with straight hair.

That hair, then, is a birth-mark? I thought it must be a wig.

She was born with it and with an insane craving to be white. When a
child, she used to scream and shriek over her blackness for hours at
a time. Mother Glen whipped that out of her.

It is a pity she did not whip out some of her other peculiarities.

Mother Glen was much to blame for some of them. You knew Paul Glen,
and what a strange, silent being he was--always absorbed in some
mysterious pursuits, roving from one lost region to another, coming
home, now and then, for a day and leaving, as if for a short time,
to be heard of after months of inquiry in Hyderabad, or Jerusalem,
or the heart of Guinea. Well, after he came home the last time he
made Asenath the subject of numerous psychological experiments. He
could mesmerize any one--what other gifts he had is not known; but
he called mesmerism childs play. Mother Glen did not object to his
making this use of the girl, because she did not wish to cross Paul
and have him go away again. It is my belief that Asenath discovered,
through some of his experiments, the existence of an occult power in
herself. Before long, she had Paul completely under her control. I
had not yet come here; but Mother Glen told me about it, and that
any effort to break the spell made Paul perfectly furious. He taught
her to read, and to sing, and obeyed her in everything--think of it!
After a while he fell sick, but it was thought not dangerously.
Asenath nursed him, and he would not eat or drink unless she bade
him.

That, though, may have been a mere whim, such as the sick often
take.

She shook her head. You have not heard all: Two of the
servants--Mammy Clara and Belinda--declare that they overheard
Asenath forbid Paul ever to touch food again, and tell him that she
would pretend to bid him eat, but he must not do so. And it is
certainly true that he at last refused all sustenance and died of
starvation.

What a horrible idea!

Shortly before Paul was stricken down, Helen proceeded, he
disposed of all his property--it was in securities of various
kinds--and we have never been able to find out what he did with the
money he received. Thousands and thousands of dollars took wing
somehow. It was never brought here, so she could not have stolen it
actually, but I am as sure that Asenath knows where that money is as
I am that I live.

Now, Helen, be sensible, do.

Mother Glen was a sensible woman, and she believed as I do. She
said the girl was uncanny. Moreover, she declared to me that Asenath
had set out to conquer her as she did Paul, and that it was only by
constant resistance that she prevented her from gaining her object.
There was a psychic contest between them. Mother Glens brain was in
a condition of siege for months. It could not stand the strain. She
was seized with paralysis and died. I blame Asenath for her death.

I did not say much in reply. My odd experience of a few minutes
before puzzled me. Helens account of the girl threw a weird light
upon what I felt bound, as a reasonable man, to consider merely
curious phenomena, subjective in character and due to some
unexplained physical cause. I determined to say a few decided words
to Robert Glen about the culpability of allowing his delicate wife
to contend with such an annoyance as Asenath, who, if not a
sorceress, certainly was a fractious and troublesome servant.

It is strange that Robert does not remove her, said I.

Helens face flushed and was drawn by a momentary spasm. She looked
at me in troubled silence, as if she could not decide to speak what
she wished to tell me.

I am afraid for Robert, she said at length, almost in a whisper;
there is something in that girls demeanor to him that it sickens
me to think of--and which I dare not try to explain, even to myself.
It seems impossible that she can dare to think that he--she went on
hurriedly, after a pause--you see, he believes in no psychic powers
and is not on his guard. He calls her unearthly pranks mere mischief
that a few years discipline will take out of her. Robert intends
her to marry Lucas.

She spoke the last sentence quite loudly, and, as the girl and her
driver were passing by the window, they overheard. Lucas, a squat,
stolid-looking mulatto, with a face like that of a satiated animal,
chuckled and poked at Asenath with the gad.

The girl stopped. She threw down her burden, flung back her head,
and turned upon Helen a wild and vicious stare. Her face, streaming
with perspiration, was full of threat. She gasped for breath from
emotion or the heaviness of her toil. She raised one hand, wiped her
brow with its open palm, and flung the drops of sweat in a shower at
Helen.

May every drop curse you! she said, between her labored breaths.

Helen looked at her with quiet scorn. Go on, Lucas, she said,
calmly.

Asenath shook herself, like a chained animal. She ground her teeth
and turned upon Lucas in fury, as if she would rend him. He did not
quail, but raised his gad threateningly and pointed to the
barrow-handles, and, after a momentary struggle with herself, the
girl took them up and went on, panting under her toil.

She shall continue that until she drops, said my sister.

But, Helen, that surely is cruel.

Not more so than drawing the fangs of a snake. I have discovered
that she is psychically powerless when physically exhausted. All the
negroes on the place know this and are rejoicing now--they all feel
more secure for knowing that she has been disciplined.

While she was speaking, I saw Robert Glen coming along the walk to
the house. Helen saw him, too. Leaning out the window, she called to
Lucas and bade him take his charge to the old barn. He hurriedly
departed, driving the girl--who now seemed doubly unwilling to drag
her load--literally like an ox, and very unsparing of the gad.

Robert greeted me cordially; but it was evident to me that there was
a cloud between his wife and him. His ruddy face assumed a stern
expression when he looked at her, and his voice had a hard tone when
he addressed her. Her manner to him had an appealing, almost
fawning, air, which it distressed me to see.

It was some days before I found a chance to speak to Robert on the
subject of the girl. I had better have held my tongue, for he was
nettled in an instant, shrugged his shoulders, and curled his lip.

You Northern people know nothing whatever about the management of
slaves. Helen leads that girl the life of a toad under a harrow,
because the other darkies say she hoodoos them, and because my
mother had some irrational ideas about demoniacal possession. I
declare to you, Tom, that if I did not know Helens delicate
condition and nervousness were much to blame, I should be ashamed of
her treatment of Asenath, who is a good house-servant, and
valuable.

But she is an annoyance that Helen should not have to contend with
now.

How is she to be got rid of? he demanded, impatiently. We never
sell any of the people on this estate, and she wont take her
freedom as a gift. I cant kill her.

Then I dropped the subject. When I next saw Helen, she had been
crying, and she begged me not to speak to Robert about the girl
again.

I saw no more of Asenath for some time, and learned that she had
been put steadily to work at the loom, the day following my arrival.

One morning, news came that the loom-house had been entered in the
night, all the yarn carried off, the woven cloth cut to pieces, and
the loom and wheels so shattered that new ones would be necessary.
Even the walls of the building were half-destroyed.

This is some of Asenaths work, said Helen.

Robert, who had been annoyed by the news, now seemed additionally
so.

Pshaw, Helen! he said sharply; it would take the strength of
several men to do some of this mischief.

She has it at command. Lucas shall take her in hand again.

No, we will have no more of that, Robert said, sternly. Now, hear
me, Helen; I have told Lucas that if he obeys you in that respect
again he shall be flogged within an inch of his life, and I mean
it.

Helens face turned very white, her hands fell into her lap, and she
sat as if stricken helpless and hopeless. I hastened away to avoid
hearing more, comprehending now what the trouble in my sisters life
was, and with a presentiment of coming evil that would be greater.

It was that very night that, having strolled into the shrubbery to
smoke my cigar, I fell asleep upon a rustic bench there and awoke to
find it was late at night, with the wind moaning as if a storm were
brewing in the cloudy heavens.

As I arose to go to the house, something--that was not
visible--seemed to come from every quarter at once and smite me. I
felt a sharp, electric thrill, which was followed by a sensation as
if I had been flung from a height and raised up again, with some of
my faculties benumbed by the fall. My hair stood up, but I felt no
fear, only a passive wonder, mixed with expectation. Turning, I saw,
by a transient gleam of moonlight, the girl Asenath, standing in the
path near by, pointing at me with a long, slender rod. The ray
passed and left a black Shadow there, which moved slowly away,
beckoning to me. I followed.

The Shadow led me out of the shrubbery and along the wide avenue
between the two rows of huts occupied by the negroes, and ended at
the mansion house. I had no will or thought but to follow it
exactly. It stopped before one of the huts and bent itself nearly
double. I, too, bent over, involuntarily, and every muscle of my
body seemed to become tense. The perspiration started out of me, and
my will was like a bar of steel ending in great fingers, which
grasped something and pulled upon it with such force that my inner
self was a-tremble with weakness when the tension relaxed, which it
did at the opening of the cottage door and the coming out of a
little lad--a mere child--who looked ghastly, as one of the dead
walking. He placed himself beside me, we followed the shadowy woman
to another house, dragged at the invisible cords of another human
soul, and brought it out into the night. It was a woman, this time,
in scantiest of night-robes.

And so we went on, stopping at every door, and from every door some
one came forth, except from that of Lucas. There, grasp as it would,
the steel fingers clutched nothing, and the door remained shut.

The woman Asenath muttered to herself, and all the crowd of
followers muttered, too. With them, my own lips formed words, of
which I did not then comprehend the meaning: Soulless beast! We
went on beyond the quarters, stopped at the mansion, and dragged at
something that resisted with all its strength, which was weaker than
ours, for it yielded at last, and came slowly, slowly down the steps
and stood among us. It was my sister Helen.

Asenath laughed, and ghastly laughter broke from all, even from
Helen herself.

I had no feeling of compassion for her, nor of fear for her or
myself, but was simply a force which another exerted. The wills of
those who followed Asenath were but strands in the cable of her
power, and their strength was in her hands for good or ill.

We followed again--out of the plantation, through a forest of pines,
over a bridge that spanned slow-crawling, black water, past a fallen
church, surrounded by forgotten graves, to the top of a hill where
there were stones laid in the form of a serpent--a great cleft
stone, like open jaws, forming the head. There Asenath paused and
cast down her rod. She stretched out her hands, and in a moment we
were formed into a circle about the rod.

And then once again those fingers of steel grasped
something--something that all their strength seemed unable to move.
Our breath came in gasps, our forms shook like the leaves of the
aspen tree, and in the heart was a fear, too great to be measured,
of failure. Long, long the effort lasted--lasted until the will
seemed to discard its own puerile strength and to fling itself upon
the bosom of impersonal force, seize the reservoir of the universal
will, and turn its power in a mighty stream upon the burden of one
desire--one unyielding demand that the door be opened. And with that
borrowed force came the sense of unlimited strength. Faith was born.
We stretched out our arms in gestures of which I can only remember
that they were first those of invitation, then of welcome. Nature
began to pulsate. There was a sound like the slow, regular beating
of a heart, in the chambers of which we were inclosed. The inner
life throbbed with it so fiercely that the blood seemed almost to
leap from my body. All about us were the movements of awakening
birds and insects; from afar came the lowing of kine, the crowing of
cocks, and the crying of children, as if they were suddenly startled
into fear.

In the centre of the circle appeared a square of strange light. We
looked upon it and beheld a place of which the darkness and the
light of this world are but the envelopes. We saw there, afar off, a
vast crystalline globe, from which extended, in all directions,
millions of filaments of clear light. The globe scintillated as a
diamond does, and its sparks floated away upon the endless filaments
of light. Nearer to us, moving about, were beings not human, and not
resembling each other further than that they were all gigantic and
all possessed of some human attributes. Some were beautiful, some
hideous; but upon every one was stamped--in strange characters that
I somehow understood--the words _I only am God_. Upon some the
writing was fantastic, as if put on in mockery. Upon others it shone
with a clear and cruel radiance that pained the sight. Some bore it
faded and dim, as if the pretension it set up had fallen like a leaf
into the stream of the ages and been almost forgotten. A great awe
fell upon us all, so great that all, except the woman Asenath and
myself, fell down and seemed as if dead. The woman trembled and
murmured to herself, and again my lips formed her words: Is it
worth while, when human desires are so poor, human life so short?

Through that door there floated not a voice, for the silence was
only broken by a faint, soft hum, like very distant music, but an
unspoken command that impressed itself upon the spirit.

_Speak!_

Still the woman hesitated. Suddenly her lips moved again, mine
following them: But only through this can _he_ be won.

I would have the desire of my heart, she said aloud.

_It is thine_, was the silent answer; _to him who knocks at this
door shall it be opened, and what he asks for there shall he
receive, whether for good or ill. It is the law._

I would be fair, like those who enslave me. All that she has--she
pointed to my sister--I would take from her and have for my own.

_The power to obtain thy will is thine, whether thou be of the just
or of the unjust. The spirit which commands shall be obeyed. It is
the law._

And is there a penalty to be paid?

_Thy act is the seed from which its penalty shall grow._

The woman sighed.

What penalty?

_Thou knowest the law._

Sighing again, bitterly, Asenath stretched out her hand. The square
of light went out. Across the spot where it had been, drifted
indistinct forms which passed into invisibility on either side.
Under their feet ran a serpent of fire, which leaped at the woman.
She grasped it, and it seemed to become the rod she had cast down.

I remembered nothing more until I came slowly to myself, stretched
upon the bench in the shrubbery, with the morning sun shining into
my face. My limbs were stiff, my head ached, and my heart was heavy
with a foreboding of evil. It was impossible for me to decide
whether the experience of the night was a dream or a reality, but I
was sorely troubled; I could not think of Asenath without a creeping
of the flesh.

On approaching the house, I saw Robert standing in the doorway. My
first glimpse of him set me to trembling with fear of evil tidings,
he looked so agitated and distressed. When he perceived me, he wrung
his hands and burst into tears.

Oh, Tom! he cried, Helen is dying. She was taken with convulsions
early this morning. She does not know me. The baby was born dead,
and Helen can not live. I must lose her! Oh, God, I must lose her!

He ran through the hall and up the stairs, like a wild man. I
followed, but the heaviness of the shock was so great that it was
but slowly and with a feeling as if the floor was rising up to my
face. Asenath was moving stealthily about the hall. I bade her
begone. She looked at me like a startled cat, but did not go. A
black girl, coming down the stairs, passed me, and I recognized her
as the first of the women who had joined our ghastly crowd the night
before. She gazed straight before her, with wide-open, horrified
eyes, and her face had the same pinched look the hall mirror had
shown me upon my own as I glanced into it involuntarily when passing
it. At the top of the stairs, Belinda, Helens poor little maid,
flung herself at my feet and clasped my knees.

Oh, Massa Tom, she cried, she am witched. Go an git d witch
doctah t--tak--de spell offn her. Nuffinll save her ef yo dont
do dat.

As I stopped to put the poor creature aside, old Mammy Clara, her
face streaming with tears, came up to me.

Massa Tom, she said, solemnly, de good God hab tooken Miss Helen.
Shes in heben wid her lil baby.

The blow overcame me. It will be best to pass over that time. I shut
myself into my room and bore my agony alone. I went once into the
room where Helen lay and looked at her face. It was the face of one
in peaceful rest, but it had aged twenty years in twelve hours. Her
maids, directed by Mrs. Grayson, an old friend of the family, were
ready to prepare her for the grave.

They think, whispered Mrs. Grayson, that she had walked in her
sleep. Her feet are scratched and torn, as if she had been among
briars barefoot, and the doctors say that her convulsions probably
came on from the shock of awakening. She was found at daybreak,
unconscious, in the hall, and the outer door was wide open.

I left the plantation a few days after the funeral, and for years
neither saw nor heard directly from Robert Glen. I never could
forgive his indifference to Helens peace of mind while she lived,
nor get over a certain disgust with which his lack of self-control
at the time of her death inspired me. I never liked him, and, after
that sad time, I had less regard for him than ever. I never told him
the story I have written. He would only have pronounced me mad, and
I did not wish to obtain that reputation for the mere sake of
warning him. Besides, I tried with all my mind to believe the
experience of that night a dream, but I found that impossible and
was always looking for a sequel to it. The sequel came in its
appointed time.

Years passed away. At the outbreak of the war, the Graysons came
North. From them, I learned that Asenath had disappeared from the
plantation long before, and was supposed to have drowned herself in
the black creek and to haunt the plantation in the form of a
black-and-white snake. Dr. Grayson blamed himself for her death.

Some of the Glen negroes, he said, told some of mine that the
girl was turning white, and that, with the exception of her face and
hands, her whole body had changed its color. Now I had heard of such
cases, but never had seen one, and in spite of what Buffon and other
naturalists say on the subject, felt doubtful of the possibility of
such a thing taking place. I rode over to Glens one day to
investigate the matter. Glen was not at home; but, presuming upon
old friendship with him, I saw the girl and told her the object of
my call. I wish you had seen her; she flew into an outrageous
passion, called me vile names, said there was not a white spot on
her person, and that if I touched her it should cost me dear. Of
course, I paid no attention to her threats, and called that Lucas of
Glens to help me turn up her sleeves. Her arms really were white,
but before I could half-examine them, she broke away from us and
tore out of the house. We followed, but lost sight of her in the
shrubbery, and to this day she has never been seen again. The
negroes say she drowned herself. Glen, when he returned, seemed to
believe so. He took me to task in a most ungentlemanly manner for
what had happened, and we have not been on speaking terms since. He
has now gone abroad to stay until this little war squall blows over,
I hear.

I trust that he may--and longer, I said. The doctor chuckled a
little and changed the subject. In secret, I said to myself: I
dont believe the girl is dead, and I do believe that Robert Glen
knows where she is. The sequel will come.

In 68, Robert returned home, bringing a wife with him. He wrote me
a formal announcement of his marriage, to which I replied with equal
formality.

It was rumored that the new wife was rich in her own right; that she
was of English parentage, but born and reared in Calcutta. Later, I
heard that Roberts old neighbors had not taken to her at all, and
that she had an ungovernable temper, being unable to keep any
servant under her roof, except a couple of East Indian women, whom
she berated continually in their own tongue, but who could not speak
English enough to impart any information about their mistress to her
neighbors.

The year after Roberts marriage, I accepted an invitation to spend
a few days with the Graysons. Feeling that I owed Robert the
courtesy of a call, I rode over to the plantation, not so much to
discharge a social duty as to see the new Mrs. Glen, about whom I
noticed, on the part of the Graysons, a marked reluctance to speak.
They edged away from the subject, when I brought it up, with nervous
looks at each other.

Leaving my horse at the outer gate, I walked along the wide avenue
nearly to the house. There was a spectral stillness upon the place.
Sadness exhaled from everything, to be drawn in with every breath.
The old servants were all gone. I had met the once sleek and stolid
Lucas, now rheumatic and ragged, begging in the village. Belinda was
in the county asylum, and the others were scattered or dead. The
scent of the lilacs was gone from the air--the very bushes were
rooted up, and lay, sear and dead, by little heaps of earth. A
triangle of cloud in the sky cast upon the earth a triangle of
shadow, in the midst of which Robert Glens home lay as if it were
entranced. No sign of happy life met me; but, as I turned aside to
look at a certain bench in the shrubbery, a black-and-white snake
ran over my foot.

I went no further. A woman was seated upon the bench--a fair woman,
with hair like dull copper reflecting sullen fire, with a face and
form perfect as those of the goddesses of old, a face which
betokened an indomitable soul which knew the secret of the power
wielded by the gods. She was bending over her clasped hands, her
face was turned aside in an attitude of eager waiting, and wore a
smile that transfigured it. Slowly approaching her, walking as a man
walks in his sleep, came Robert Glen. He threw himself at her feet
and laid his head upon her knee. She bent to him with a little
rapturous caress, and both faces were as happy as those of the
people in Paradise.

I turned and went away from the place, and entered its precincts no
more. From that hour, I was self-devoted to one purpose--to seek the
knowledge that should open the door to her degradation and
destruction. In the midst of her success, and in the height of her
pride, she should turn black as she was in the day when Lucas drove
her. I swore it. So should my friend and my sister, whom she robbed
and slew, be avenged.




OLD HARD LUCK

By E. Munson


Every one admitted he had a good heart in him. Even his bitterest
enemy, Kid Alderson, was willing to make that concession, but
qualified it by adding that he was so blamed unlucky and peculiar,
a body never knowed when he _was_ in to clear.

This singularity extended to his name. H-o-s-s-e-l-k-u-s, accent on
the _sel_, he was wont to explain, with something like a shade of
weariness, when a new operator faltered on his long patronymic.

Eben J. Hosselkus was engineer of Engine Seventeen-Forty-Three.

With the meagre data available, it is difficult to determine whether
the name Hosselkus belongs to the Anglo-Saxon, Indo-European, or
Teutonic family; but no such uncertainty attached to the origin of
its unfortunate bearer. He was an unmistakable Yankee; rather below
the medium height, lean and wiry; his mild, light-blue eyes were
overshadowed by bushy and frowning eyebrows, and his grizzled
mustache bristled with a singular ferocity, which the weakness of
mouth and chin immediately belied. The whole man was decidedly
contradictory. When first addressed, his manner was brusque and his
voice gruff; but, after a few terrible expletives, his tone would
soften and his most positive assertions invariably ended with an
appeal for confirmation. Now aint it so, for a fact? Now wouldnt
you say so, f youuz me? he would ask, while his wistful eyes
wandered from face to face in search of support or sympathy,
perhaps.

He was the oldest engineer on the division, and the most
unfortunate. Two decades of brakemen and conductors had twisted and
distorted his luckless surname in every conceivable way; but to all
appellations, from Old Hoss to Hustle-Cuss, he ever accorded the
same ready response.

Of late years he had been known simply as Hard Luck. When a
train-crew would reach the end of the division, wan and famished
from a protracted sojourn at some desert-siding, the first inquiry
of their sympathetic brethren would be: Who was pullin you? Old
Hard Luck, of course, was the seldom varied reply.

Old Hosselkus had probably suffered more moving accidents by flood
and field than any other man ever lived through. And yet he was a
thoroughly competent engineer. He was an earnest student of
mechanical engineering, and could explain the mysteries of link
motion, the principles of the injector, and the working of the
Westinghouse automatic air-brake in a singularly lucid manner.
Nothing pleased him better than to enlighten a green fireman upon
some knotty point, and the walls of the roundhouse and bunkhouse are
still covered with his elaborate chalk and pencil diagrams of the
different parts of the locomotive.

As far back as he could remember, it had been the dream of
Hosselkuss life to be a regular passenger-engineer--in railroad
parlance, to pull varnished cars. This was the goal upon the
attainment of which the best efforts of his life had been
concentrated, and still, after twenty years service, he seemed as
far as ever from success. Many times he had almost achieved it, but
always something had happened to prevent, some unaccountable and
unavoidable piece of ill-luck. Finally, his name became so
synonymous with disaster that the Company hesitated to intrust the
valuable equipment of an express-train and the lives of the
traveling public to him. Thus, as the years went by, old Hard Luck
had become accustomed to crawling out from under the disgruntled
engine of a side-tracked worktrain or way-freight to acknowledge the
patronizing wave of the hand, as some former fireman of his whizzed
by with a passenger-train or an officers special. Despair,
however, had no place in his heart, and he still reveled in the
fancied joys of pulling the fast express, and dreamed of that happy
time when, to the customary inquiry as to the time of his departure,
he would be able to answer: I go out on Number Three.

There is a great difference in engineers; some can step off the
foot-board at the end of a long run looking as fresh and clean as at
the start, while, to judge from the appearance of others, one would
imagine they had made the journey in the ash-pan. Hosselkus belonged
to the latter class. It would have required some more powerful
solvent than simple soap and water to have removed the soot and
grime that had gradually accumulated in the wrinkles and hollows of
his countenance during the years of arduous service. There was some
excuse for him, however, seeing that so much of his life had been
spent upon superannuated ten-wheelers, which, as every one knows,
are awkward machines to oil, on account of their wheels being so low
and close together. Then, too, he had so many accidents. He scarcely
ever made a round trip without slipping an eccentric, bursting a
flue, or burning out his grates, not to mention more serious
mishaps, such as derailments, head and hind-end collisions, or
running into slides and wash-outs. Much practice had made him almost
perfect in taking down a side, or disconnecting a locomotive,
while some of his exploits in the fire-box, plugging flues, rivaled
the exhibition given by the Hebrew children in that seven times
heated furnace of Holy Writ.

But while his extensive experience upon the road had developed
habits of self-reliance and a certain readiness in emergencies, it
was not calculated to impart that gloss or polish which enables one
to shine in society. Hard Lucks only appearance within the charmed
circle had been when he acted as pall-bearer at the funeral of a
division superintendent, and upon that occasion he had scandalized
his colleagues by appearing without the conventional white gloves,
and a hurried and embarrassed search of his pockets only brought to
light a bunch of waste and a soft hammer, articles which, though
almost indispensable on a locomotive, are not essential to the
success of a well-ordered interment.

Gamblers say that if one is but possessed of sufficient capital, the
most persistent run of ill-luck may eventually be broken, and so it
proved in Hosselkuss case.

An officers special, carrying the leading magnates of the road
upon a tour of inspection, was expected, and Engine
Seven-Seventy-Seven, the fastest locomotive on the division, and
Bill Pearson, an engineer with a record, had been held in readiness
for some time to take them out.

The engine, with a full tank of the best coal, had already been run
out of the roundhouse, and the train-dispatcher had the freights
safely side-tracked, and satisfactory meets with the
passenger-trains about figured out, when he was interrupted in his
study of the train-sheet by a nervous ring at the telephone. The
dispatcher answered it himself, and the foreman of the roundhouse
announced that Pearson was sick, and unable to take the special out.

Thats bad, mused the dispatcher, but added, a moment later:
Well, send the next best man, and get a move on; theyll be here in
ten minutes.

They aint none, replied the roundhouse.

No other engineer? shouted the dispatcher.

Well, theres only Perkins on the yard-engine and Hard Luck just in
on Scotts work-train--might double him out again--thats all.

The dispatcher rushed into the adjoining room to consult the
superintendent.

It was in the midst of the busiest season, and every available
engineer was out upon the road.

Hard Luck? nonsense! said the superintendent when he was informed
of the situation. Tell Pearson he must take the special out--this
is a nice time for him to get sick!

The roundhouse was notified, and replied that Pearson was foamin
awful--his wifes got him jacked up and two doctors workin on him,
yelled the foreman.

This is terrible! _terrible!_ groaned the superintendent. Perkins
is only a boy, we cant put him on, and Hosselkus will never get
over the division without something happening--never in the world!
and the perspiration started upon his forehead. The whistle of the
special aroused him to the necessity of immediate action.

Tell them to put Hosselkus on, and get him out as quick as
possible--we are in the hands of Providence anyway, I suppose, he
added to himself.

All was hurry and excitement when the special pulled in. The engine
that brought it in was cut off and hurried out of the way, while the
huge, well-groomed Three-Sevens backed slowly down in charge of
Hosselkus, whose heart swelled chokingly as the brazen clangor of
her bell pealed out.

But the beginning was ominous. The engine was unfamiliar to him and
worked more stiffly than he had expected, so that when he backed
down to be coupled on, he struck the train with a momentum that
jarred its occupants uncomfortably.

Lord! _Lord!_ moaned the superintendent as he wiped his clammy
brow and sought to divert the directors attention from the mishap
by suggesting some needed improvements in the Companys water
supply.

Presently he excused himself and went ahead to the engine to
interview Hard Luck. He found him with an oil-can in one hand and a
bunch of waste in the other, engaged in the important duty of
oiling round.

Hosselkus had had no time to change his greasy jumper and overalls
for cleaner ones; his hasty wash had merely imparted a smeary look
to his countenance, and the badge on his cap was upside down, but
his eyes sparkled beneath their shaggy brows, his mustache bristled
savagely, and the whole man was nervously alert as, with a squirt of
oil here, a dab of the waste there, and feeling carefully each key
and bearing to detect any signs of heating, he worked his way around
the mighty racer. He was just finishing his round when the
superintendent came up.

Now, Hosselkus, said the latter, appealingly, _do_ be careful and
try and get us over the division in some kind of shape--make time,
and, for heavens sake, dont break down on the road. If you make a
first-class run, Ill see what we can do about getting a passenger
run for you.

Hosselkus put away his tallow-pot, wiped his hands on the bunch of
waste, which he then carefully placed in his pocket to serve as a
handkerchief, and at length spoke: Colonel, he said, dont you
lose no sleep over this excursion--well git there in the biggest
kind of shape--this mill has got it in her, an if I cant coax a
move out of her, Ill run a stationary the rest of my life. Now,
these kid-engineers of yours, they aint up in mechanics like theyd
oughter be--not but what theyre good boys--mind you, Im not sayin
a word agin em--but they waste her strenth--they dont really
savvy the theory. Now----

Yes, yes, hurriedly interrupted the superintendent; I know, but
we must be getting out of here, and dont forget that passenger
run--its manslaughter, if not murder in the first degree, he said
to himself, as he hastened back; but if we escape with our lives,
he shall have the run.

The conductor waved his hand, Hosselkus opened the throttle slightly
and the steam shrilled through the cylinder-cocks as the special
moved down the yard. Slowly he threaded the network of tracks,
cut-offs, and blind switches, and then more rapidly by the long
siding opposite the row of cottages, where the families of the
conductors and engineers lived. And instinctively he felt the eyes
of the women upon him, and that they were saying: Well, if there
aint that crazy fool on Pearsons Three-Sevens, with a passenger
special! Wouldnt that kill you? for women are jealous
divinities--they would not that man should have any other gods or
goddesses before them, and, as Hosselkus worshiped only a
locomotive, a thing of steel and iron, they made of him a by-word
and a reproach. But at that moment, Hard Luck cared but little for
their disdain; he only thought of his triumph, and the discordant
clanging of the bell of the Three-Sevens sounded in his ears as a
pan of victory. At last--at last, seemed to say its brazen
tongue.

The last switch was passed, and Hosselkus, forgetting the lightness
of his train, opened the throttle so suddenly that the engine fairly
leaped forward, while passengers necks received a violent wrench.

This engineer of yours, colonel, said the general superintendent,
spitting out the end of a cigar he had involuntarily swallowed, is
just off a pile-driver, is he not?

The colonel laughed a joyless laugh. The fact is, he replied, the
regular man was taken sick at the last moment, and we had no one but
this fellow to put on. He is an old engineer, but not used to the
engine. I think he will improve when he gets the hang of it.

I hope so--I hope so, said the general, fervently, as he lit a
fresh cigar; there is evidently room for improvement.

But presently even the anxious superintendent was forced to admit
they were moving. Telegraph-poles, that had appeared and disappeared
with majestic deliberation, began to flit by the windows with a
frequency and abruptness very unusual in those stately objects;
quicker and less rhythmic came the click of the wheels as each rail
was passed, and the leaps of the engine at each revolution of the
driving-wheels were merged into a continuous, convulsive shudder.
The passengers no longer experienced the sensation of being drawn
along, but felt as though projected through space, and the more
timid clung to their seats to avoid soaring off through the roof.
Trainmen who could traverse undisturbed the reeling roofs of a fast
freight, made their way through the swaying cars with difficulty.

Old Hard Luck was evidently getting there, and the superintendent
prayed silently that he might maintain the speed to the end.

At the first stop he went forward to congratulate the engineer. The
fireman was under the engine hoeing out, and Hosselkus, sooty but
triumphant, was oiling round.

Howds that suit you, colonel? he cried, as his superior
approached; the old girls a-crawlin, aint she?

Youre doing fine, Hosselkus--fine, but keep it up--pound her on
the back, for the porter tells me the wine is getting low and
theyre liable to see something to beef about. Keep em a-rollin,
and the passenger run is yours. The colonel had risen from the
ranks, and at times, unconsciously, lapsed into the old dialect.

Dont you worry none, well git there. Gimme this mill, colonel,
an none of the other boys on the division ud ever get a smell of
my smoke. An she does it so easy, reminds of your maws old
rocker--just handle her right, dont crowd her, thats the main
point. Now my theorys like this, well say the cylinder receives so
much----

But the colonel had fled. Hard Luck carried his theory with him, for
he never succeeded in obtaining a listener to whom he could expound
it.

No accident occurred, however; the speed was maintained, and the
special reached Olesons Siding so far in advance of the
train-dispatchers calculations that quite a wait was necessary
while Number Three, the east-bound express, toiled up the grade.

Hosselkus lit the headlight, for the sun was impaled upon one of the
peaks of the distant Sierras, whose eastern slopes were already
purpling with shades of evening.

It was the last stop. Below him wound the tortuous Goose-Neck Grade,
with the division terminus at its foot. The run was nearly ended.

Having finished oiling, Hosselkus leaned against the cylinder-head
and gazed abstractedly down the track. A brakeman was seated on the
head-block of the switch, throwing stones at an adjacent
telegraph-pole, and moodily speculating upon the probabilities of
getting in in time for supper, while an occasional breath of wind
from the valley brought with it, from far down the grade, the
puffing of the engines on Number Three.

He had succeeded. The record would be broken beyond a doubt; but as
the cool breeze of sunset blew in his face, he suddenly became aware
of the fact that he was tired, and he remembered then that he had
been on the road for over forty-eight hours.

The smell of heated tallow struck him, for the first time, as being
a singularly unappetizing odor, and he looked over the huge machine
with something akin to dissatisfaction in the expression of his
face. He sighed, and the brakeman asked if she was coming--meaning
the train.

No, replied Hard Luck; she aint showed up round the bend
yet--Iuz just thinkin.

Well, here shes a-comin.

Hosselkus clambered to his seat, and as soon as the express-train
had cleared the switch it was opened by the brakeman, and the
special was once more under way.

Leaning uncomfortably 